humansofny"I lived in chaos for a long time, but I’ve been sober for thirty years. And I’ve got a tremendous amount of gratitude for that. Right now I have no money, no job, and no man. But I’ve never been happier. Because my only addictions are chocolate ice cream, gossip, and feeling good.”humansofny“We normally spent time together on Sundays. Because that was the only day he wasn’t drunk. We’d watch football together. I could name every player in the NFL. Then he’d take me out to the backyard and have me throw footballs through a tire. He wanted speed and accuracy. He said he didn’t want me throwing like a girl. He showed me how to use my hips to get extra power. On weeknights he’d usually come home and pass out in the living room. But if he’d been drinking hard liquor, he’d get angry. That’s when I’d go up to my room and put on my headphones. I’d listen to Alice Cooper or Black Sabbath and turn up the volume. But I started to notice a pattern. The yelling would get louder and louder until it suddenly stopped. And that’s how I knew the beating had begun. The next morning my mother would have bruises or fractures or missing teeth. She’d always give me some lame excuse about falling down the stairs. But I knew what was happening. And for years I had this rage building inside of me. Then one night, I finally took off my headphones. I went downstairs and caught him in the act. I ripped the phone off the kitchen wall and threw it as hard as I could at his head. Right through the tire hole. He woke up on the floor, called me a terrible daughter, and never touched my mother again.”humansofny“Everyone is at war, except for me. One uncle is fighting with the other. My aunt’s not talking to Grandma. Grandma isn’t talking to anyone. She said that nobody’s coming to her house this year. Christmas is cancelled. I guess it’s always been like this. But now everyone’s old enough that they don’t have to pretend for the kids anymore. All of it’s out in the open. I miss the ignorance of childhood. When we’d all go to church, cook a big dinner, gather in a circle to read the Polar Express, and I wouldn’t notice that the adults were talking to the children more than each other.”humansofny“I was working as a prep cook at a BBQ joint in Harlem. I got off work early one day, and I discovered my wife with another man. That was the beginning of all this. I’d been with her for twenty-one years. I was devastated. I got right back on the bus and headed back to the city. I went straight to the bars on 42nd Street. I got wasted every day. I lost my wallet, my phone, my contacts. I didn’t want to do nothing. I just said ‘F it.’ I’ve been out on the streets for eight months. When it’s time to rest, I find a place to sleep. But I spend most of my time here on this block. These are the best people on this block. I’ve never experienced so many good people in my life. Some of them help me out every single day. They say: ‘What are you doing out here? We’ve never met anyone like you.’ Lily and her daughter brought the whole family to meet me on Thanksgiving. I felt like a celebrity. Then there’s Cheryl with the glasses who just walked by a couple minutes ago. Love her. John and his wife, love them too. David and Michael are the best. And what’s up to my man Sean from the beauty parlor. Shout out to T and Marianne. So many good friends on this block. But they aren’t going to see me much longer because I found a program that’s going to give me a place to stay, and a job cleaning the streets. I’m done with this life. I don’t belong here. And I know my grandkids miss Grandpa. So if you don’t see me here soon, you can say: ‘He’s done it! He’s gone!’ But I’m going to shock everybody. Cause I’m coming back with Christmas cards.”humansofny“Back in college they called me Mailbox Head. Because my head was pretty big. Mailbox Head was a little bit reckless. I didn’t really have a plan in life back then. I drank too much. I threw illegal parties on campus. I climbed abandoned bridges. One time I broke my tailbone because I thought it’d be fun to make a toboggan out of a beer banner. The wild behavior carried over into the first few years of my marriage. But when I was 27, my daughter was born. Three months later I went hiking with my buddies, and I started to climb a cliff without ropes. And I got about eighty feet up, and I couldn’t get any higher. But I also couldn’t get down. I was so desperate that I was about to jump. I kept thinking about my daughter. Somehow my friend talked me down, and I ended up surviving. But that was the end of Mailbox Head.”humansofny“When my kid was twelve years old, I told him: ‘There are three things that are bullshit in this world: Santa Claus, professional wrestling, and politics.’ Yet people get so emotional about politics. They’re always spouting sound bites from their favorite cable channel. It’s so boring. There’s no creativity. Nothing but sound bites. Then on Election Day, my newsfeed is filled with people posting smug pictures about how they voted. Like it really matters. In the end, the people with money are still going to be calling the shots. Nothing matters. But I guess it makes people feel like their life isn’t meaningless if they’re spouting off on Facebook. I hardly ever post anything. My profile picture is Uncle Sam and my cover image is an eagle shitting on him.”humansofny“There was a permanent dark cloud in the house. It was abuse in every way. Mental. Physical. Sexual. It was permanent fear. Whenever my father was home, I just locked myself in my room and tried to be as quiet as possible. My mother and I finally escaped when I was six, but the abuse stayed with me. I didn’t make any friends at school. I couldn’t trust anyone. It was an open wound. But when I was fourteen, my mom told me that we could do something about it. She asked me if I’d be willing to testify. And I agreed. The trial happened two years later at my father’s military base. I hadn’t seen him in ten years. The lawyers told me I didn’t have to be in the courtroom when I testified, but I felt like I needed to face him. Just to show that I wasn’t afraid anymore. He was already seated when I walked in the room. I put my hand on the Bible and looked right at him. For a moment, I felt a stroke of fear wash over me. Like I was a kid again. But I set it aside and gave my testimony. It felt like a huge weight had been lifted off my shoulders. He was sentenced to ten years in prison. I’ve moved on with my life. I don’t think about him. I’ve grown to look like him, but I’m not him. Even if someone tells me I’m him-- I’m not him. I’m me. I’ve lived my entire life to not be him.”humansofny“It’s our anniversary today. We always talk about how lucky we are to have found our person. I wasn’t even supposed to go to the bar that night. My friends and I were going to a golf tournament the next morning, so we wanted to get some sleep. But at the last minute we decided to grab a quick drink. My buddies were doing their thing, so I decided to take a lap around the bar. And I noticed one girl that was just glowing. I’m pretty sure that she was sitting right under one of the bar lights. I just had to go for it. I walked right up to her. I said something like: ‘I want to take this opportunity to introduce myself to you.” After that I was grasping at straws. I kept trying to find a common denominator. But the best I could come up with was that she was in the same sorority as my friend’s cousin. Somehow we ended up talking for the next fifteen minutes. The bar was so loud that we had to lean in to talk to each other. At one point we actually touched cheeks. And my buddies are gonna tear me apart for this, but I just remember thinking that she had the softest face. I gave her my number at the end of the conversation. I wasn’t really expecting to hear from her. But the next day she told her mom the story, and her mom said: ‘Give him a call. You don’t have to marry him.’”humansofny“My dad does two jobs. Sometimes he does fire fighter. And sometimes he does police officer and fights crimes for the city by using smarts and helping people. He says that the bad guys don’t always mean to steal, but they feel like they have to because their families are poor. But if they sell drugs and make people sick then my dad will have to really arrest them for real. I had an idea that one day I’m going to send notes to the bad guys and tell them not to do crimes anymore. Then my dad can hand out the notes every time he fights a crime. I'm going to say: ‘Dear bad guys, if you stop doing crimes, then you’ll have a better life and a better family. And people will start to notice that you’re being a good guy and you’ll have a lot more friends. And then everyone will help you and come visit you and you’ll start to feel really proud of yourself for being nice and having a nice family.’”humansofny“We moved from Brazil three years ago. We love Thanksgiving. We cook everything. But we’re still learning many things about the American culture. Back home everyone likes to hug and kiss on the cheek. It communicates that you care about someone. But here it is different. My friend tried to give me a Thanksgiving handshake at the gym today. But I went in for a Thanksgiving hug. And he only gave me a Thanksgiving half-hug. A few months ago I was called into Human Resources, and they said: ‘Mr. Mauricio, no more hugging at the office. It is making people uncomfortable.’ So I learned my lesson that day. I came home and told the children: ‘Be careful not to touch your classmates.’”humansofny“We’ve been boyfriend and girlfriend for just over two months. We met at camp. We didn’t talk to each other much at camp. But then we decided to talk more after camp. I go to boarding school, so this is the first time we’ve seen each other for five weeks. But we talk a lot on the phone. And we’ll help each other if we’re having a rough day. This week I had an AP US History Exam. I studied all the wrong stuff. I thought there’d be a lot more questions on the War of 1812. But instead there were a ton of questions about The American Revolution. So I was pretty depressed. But she texted me and said: ‘You tried your best. It’s all you can do.’ Then we talked about it all night until I went to bed. And it just felt really nice to have somebody to make you feel better.”humansofny“My wife urged me to take this little trip to New York so that I can clear my head. It’s just for two days. But my leash has been so short lately that it feels like an eternity. Part of me definitely died when our daughter was born. I was always a free spirited person. I traveled a lot. I never had a boss. I had all the choices in the world. But a lot of that disappeared in order to make things possible for my daughter. I watch her during the day. And I’m not mad about it. This is the happiest time of my life. It would be great if my daughter was here right now. It’d be so fun to watch her run around the park. But I’d also be worried about her safety. And the diaper bag. And the car seat. And the stroller. And our next meal. And our next place to stay. There’s always a flickering flame of worry that doesn’t go away. Back home we live by the beach. And if my wife ever senses that I’m getting overwhelmed, she tells me to go jump in the ocean. And that resets me for a few days. It’s all I need. I just need a little space to be me. Because it can be so easy to get lost in helping a new person become someone.”humansofny“I’ve got a stepson living with us at home. He came over from the Ukraine when he was eighteen. He was OK in the beginning. I took him to some places. We did some things. But now he’s twenty-six. And he’s still there. His mom does everything for him. She cooks, cleans, does his laundry—everything but wipe his butt. He just stays in his room and reads his books. It’s not that he’s a bad kid. He doesn’t drink or do drugs. But he’s just always there. When I come home from work I want to relax. I want to forget about my day. I don’t want to listen to his loud voice. And I don’t want him standing in the kitchen when I’m trying to cook. I swear he steps in front of me on purpose. And don’t even get me started on the bathroom. This kid takes actual baths. A normal guy takes a fucking shower, but not my stepson. Hour long baths.”humansofny“There was a program in San Francisco where they’d come into public schools and teach movement. They’d look for kids with potential and give them scholarships to dance school. They visited my school in third grade. And I guess they saw something in me, because they provided two free ballet classes per week. I didn’t really like it at first. But one night I went to see The Nutcracker, and it inspired me to become a dancer. I enrolled in a serious ballet school, and by the age of thirteen I was dancing five days a week. Then six days a week. The school started to get really competitive as we got older. Everybody wanted to be a soloist. Kids would come to the school from all over the world. Some of them were ‘bunheads.’ All they did was dance and watch tapes. But most of us were more balanced. Ballet is extremely rigid, so if you have the opportunity to have fun, you take it. I started drinking a lot. And doing a lot of drugs. It was hard to hide. I’d come to class late and tired. I ended up dropping out of regular high school. The dance school never approved of that decision, but I always hated studying. Personally I don’t think I ever lost my edge. I was just driven in ballet and partying at the same time. They kicked me out of the school when I turned twenty. I knew it was coming, because that’s the age when you either go to college or join a dance company. But neither of those were options for me, so I just quit completely. That’s when the dancing stopped. But the partying kept going.”humansofny“Being six is so hard. I have to go to school, and do math, and do a lot of words, and spell things, and take tests every Friday, and exercise, and play games that I don’t want to play. And mom says we’re going to have another baby soon, so it’s going to be crazy. We wanted a girl but we got a boy. I don’t even know what I’m going to do. I already have one brother who hits too much and goes everywhere without permission.”humansofny“We’ve been together five years. I wanted a marriage, a family, the whole thing. But he wasn’t ready for a child. So I think he was hoping I’d end the pregnancy. He claims I took control of his life by keeping the baby. He’s not the type of person to abandon his child, so he thinks I forced his hand. At first it seemed like he was going to make the most of it. He told all his friends about the pregnancy. He took me out to eat. We had a little vacation. But that changed quickly. There was no stomach rubbing. No asking how I felt. He started going out a lot, and stopped kissing me goodbye. Our son is seventeen months now. We still live under the same roof, but that’s about it. There’s no physical intimacy. Very little communication. He’s always great with our son. They play together and have a great time. But there’s no ‘three of us.’ We never go anywhere together. Or if we do, the conversation is awkward and surface level. I try talking to him. I tell him: ‘If you hate me or resent me, just let me know.’ But he says: ‘Quit forcing things. Let it become what it’s going to be.’ But it’s been eighteen months and it hasn’t become anything. He never wants to talk about our relationship. I know that I should leave him, but I just don’t have the courage. I keep hoping something will change. Because I always wanted the experience of raising a child together.”humansofny“He was the RA in my freshman dorm. His nickname was ‘Rock.’ He was blonde and skinny and made legendary mix tapes for the dance parties. We never talked much in college, but we became good friends when we reconnected at a reunion. The event was eighties themed. There were a lot of Talking Heads cover songs, and we danced all night. After that we started talking every day. Even though we live on different coasts, we’d find different ways to connect. He’d create scavenger hunts for me. He’d send me on missions to find obscure books and records. And we began making mix tapes together. Both of us come from research backgrounds, so we take our mix tapes very seriously. MMTR is our acronym for the meaning of music: ‘Magic, Meditation, Therapy, Reunion.’ So there’s a lot of MMTR mix tapes: ‘MMTR I,’ ‘MMTR II,’ ‘MMTR III,’ ‘MMTR 80’s,’ ‘MMTR 90’s.’ Then there’s ‘Clan McJangle,’ which is nothing but Scottish Pop. Then we’ve got another called ‘Buzz Gems,’ which is nothing but guitar songs under three minutes that alternate decades as you go down the playlist. Our mix tapes hold us together. Lately we’ve been working on a business together. And if we ever get too frustrated, we just put on our headphones, choose a mix tape, and hit play at the exact same time.”humansofny“I sold phone covers back in Ghana, but it wasn’t going anywhere. So I came to South Africa to see if I could change my life. I tried to switch over to the clothing business. I knew how to sew, so I decided to give it a shot. But things are even worse than before. I can stand here all day and not get a single customer. I’ve been at it for three years, and I don’t even know why I’m still making an effort. I should have a wife by now. And a house. And kids. But I have nothing. How can I meet someone when I can’t even provide for myself? Recently I fell in love with a woman. She sells food around here. We used to talk every day and night. We bathed together, and slept together, and prayed together. She’d give me smiles and kisses. I didn’t have much, but I gave her what little I had. For once I was finally happy. Then she came over to my house one evening, and saw that I didn’t have anything. No radio. No television. Nothing. And she pretended like everything was OK. She acted like it didn’t bother her. But two weeks later she broke off contact. She never said it was because I don’t have money. But it’s because I don’t have money. Sometimes I think I should just kill myself.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“I used to work as a producer at a media company. It was one of those cultures where you worked until you had nothing left to give. My boss’s voice would be the first thing I heard every morning. He’d phone me at 5 AM, asking ‘Have you done this? Have you followed up with that?’ He’d put me down. He’d shout at me during meetings. I can tell you the exact type of tile in the office because I spent so much time looking down. And I wasn’t allowed to grow. I wasn’t allowed to do anything on the creative side. I could only handle the budgets. Once I asked him if I could leave early one day to take a course in art direction, and he said: ‘What makes you think you could succeed at something like that?’ That’s when I finally quit. I freelanced for a while. And the more distance I got from the job, the more I realized that I’d allowed myself to be pigeonholed. I wanted to do something creative. I started trying to save money to attend the New York Film Academy, but it was so expensive that I decided to put all that money into gear instead. And for the past couple months, I’ve been making short documentaries about people. I’ve made about twenty of them so far. I let the person use the video however they’d like. I’m not sure what will come of it, and I’ve only got a couple months of savings left, but for the first time in my life I feel like I’m using all of my talents. And I’ve never had this much fun.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“My first job in film was as a trainee on a feature. I think it was called ‘Gums and Noses.’ I cleaned the toilet, swept, made tea— things like that. All I ever got was money for transportation, which was fine for me. I just wanted to be on a film set. But with two weeks left of filming, there was a bit of a disaster in the camera department. A trainee blew up an HD monitor by plugging it into the wrong hole. Which was a shame, but it was great for me because I always wanted to be a cinematographer. When I heard them say they needed a replacement, I raised my hand and said: ‘Me, me, me!’ So that’s how it started. And it never stopped. The camera department can be a weird place. It’s all white and male. And it’s a bit like boot camp. A lot of the guys are mean. They don’t like being approached by subordinates. And if you make a mistake, they’ll scream at you. A lot of the guys act like they’re curing cancer instead of making beautiful pictures. But I had thick skin. So I moved up quickly. Recently I DP’ed one of the most popular shows in South Africa. And I run my department a little differently. It’s much more chill. I think we should all share our knowledge. Nobody should be afraid to make mistakes or feel embarrassed to ask questions. And one trainee should always be a girl. It doesn’t matter if she’s studied or not, as long as she’s keen.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“I grew up thinking that it was a good thing to rob the white man. Everyone fought injustice in their own way. But in my neighborhood, we opposed the government by breaking into houses and robbing people. But in 1994 we were told: ‘Democracy is coming. Apartheid is ending. It’s time to learn a trade.’ So I listened. I did everything I was supposed to do. I’ve worked in construction for the past twenty-five years. I started my own company. I followed all the procedures. But nothing has come of it. The government always talks about empowerment. They make a big show of letting small businesses compete for contracts. But the jobs always get awarded to the same few people. If the government gave me work, it would empower me. Then I could empower other people. I could hire employees and teach them plumbing, and carpentry, and cabinets. I could purchase a brick making machine, and hire women to mix cement. But right now I can’t even afford a printer for my office. Everything is hand to mouth. I had high hopes when apartheid ended. But I’ve been building houses for twenty-five years, and I’m still living in a shack.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“My dad moved us from Congo when I was a teenager. I wasn’t given a choice in the matter. I didn’t know anyone. I couldn’t speak English. And for a while I had an identity crisis. I felt like my skin was too dark and my build was too muscular. Other kids were telling me that I looked like a boy. I got bullied a lot. I didn’t have any friends. I began to feel depressed. Then one weekend I got invited to a party at a boy’s house. I was excited to go. But when I got there, it was nothing but drunk people. Everyone was passing around a joint. And when it got to me, the boy said: ‘Trust me, you’ll love it.’ So I tried it. And I did love it. Next thing you know, I was going out every weekend. I started drinking heavily. I was high all the time. My grades began to drop. But I was also getting cooler. I was never alone anymore. I was hanging out with popular people. We all hyped each other up, so it was easy to ignore the consequences of our behavior. But whenever I was alone again, I felt like I didn’t know myself anymore. I was heading down the wrong path. That’s not how I was brought up. So I had to get conscious. I had to be honest about what brings me happiness: writing poetry, reading books, and sometimes being alone. I backed away from the party lifestyle. I became more selfish with my time. The other night I ran into a few of my old friends, and they were a little mad because I hadn’t been around. They said I was acting like I was above it all. But that’s not the case. I’m just at a different stage of my life.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“I’m studying human rights. It’s a long way off, but one day I’d like to be a lawyer and protect vulnerable populations in Africa. My mother is African but I grew up in France. In high school I went on a humanitarian mission to provide health and education for a village in Senegal. There was no water. There was no electricity. We visited a small orphanage where the children had to beg for their food every day. They had no choice, because if they came back with nothing, they didn’t eat. I cried myself to sleep that night. And when I returned to France, I felt guilty for everything: for living where I live, for having a family, for growing up in a rich country with education and healthcare. I didn’t tell many people about my experience. I didn’t want it to seem like a trophy. And I was aware of the irony because France colonized Senegal. But that trip opened my eyes to the opportunities I’d been taking for granted. It made me appreciate the choices that I have in life. And since those choices are a privilege, I want to use them to help other people.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“I started bodybuilding after my chemotherapy. At first it was just a way to get healthy again. But I discovered I was good at it. I started winning competitions. And I got hooked. My boyfriend didn’t like it. He thought it made me less desirable. But the worse our relationship got, the more I focused on working out. It just felt so great to be recognized for something. I was really, really good at it. And the bodybuilding community is so great. They’re some of the least judgmental people because they’re used to being judged all the time. For the first few years I was really self-conscious about my body. But I’ve gotten to the point where the small comments don’t really bother me anymore: ‘ew,’ gross,’ ‘disgusting’-- things like that. I can usually block people out if they can’t type more than a sentence. But occasionally the criticism sinks in. It still hurts when people question my gender. Or my sexuality. And I’ve had some awkward Tinder dates. The last guy said: ‘Holy fuck, you’re bigger than I thought you’d be.’ But despite all this, I’ve gotten comfortable in my own skin. I actually feel more feminine now than I did growing up. I was always skinny. I never had breasts. I didn’t ever feel like a natural woman. But what is natural? Is make-up natural? Or botox? Or fillers? Or breast implants? All of us are flawed. My mask might be different than other people, but we all hide behind something. I just hide behind my muscles.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“My dream is to create an incubator of sorts. It can be difficult for start-ups to get funding in South Africa, so I’m trying to build a platform that connects investors and entrepreneurs. I’ve been working on it full time for about a year now. But the idea hasn’t taken off as quickly as I’d hoped. Don’t get me wrong-- I’m still on the grind. I’m still having meetings and trying to put together deals. I’m telling myself that no matter what, I’m going to figure this out. But if I’m being absolutely honest with you, it’s not looking promising. I’ve got about two or three months of runway left. The bank has been calling me every day because of the credit card. And my car just broke down, which will probably eat up twenty percent of my remaining reserves. My options are running out. It’s a lot of pressure, but I’m trying to focus on the bright side. I made it a whole year. We built the initial platform and had a few users. And I’ve moved forward as a person. I’ve gained a lot of new insights. I’ve grown my network. Experienced people have told me that I’m working on an important problem. And that validation means more than money. So even if this particular business fails, I’ll try again. But next time I’ll come back at a better angle.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“The crime around here is out of control. It’s not even safe to walk down the street. People are snatching bags and phones in broad daylight. And it’s even more dangerous when the sun goes down. It’s bad for business. Our customers are being scared away. The police aren’t doing anything, so we’re forced to take matters into our own hands. Recently one of my customers had his car broken into. While I was repairing his shoe, we heard glass shatter. And we saw three guys running away with his laptop computer. I chased one of them down, caught him by the shirt, and began to beat him. I made him call his brothers and tell them he was about to be killed. Sure enough, they brought back the laptop. So I let him go. But the police came to my store the next day, and told me that I shouldn’t have taken matters into my own hands. They said next time I’d go to jail. But what am I supposed to do? Let my customers be robbed? Soon we won’t have any customers left. If police aren’t willing to stop the crime, we must do it ourselves.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny(2/2) “Mom tried her best to pay for flight school, but we kept running out of money. I’d have to drop out for a few weeks, and since flying involves so much muscle memory, it would take me a while to get back on track. So one day I bought a stack of magazines and newspapers. I went through every page and cut out the advertisements. Then I opened my pantry and wrote down every brand I could find. I sent all of them letters, asking for help. Almost everyone said ‘no.’ But I did receive an amount from a grocery store called Pick-n-Pay. And Breitling sent me a brand new watch to raffle. That was a huge break. I sold six hundred raffle tickets. Things were going so well. African Pilot Magazine promoted the raffle for free. A man from Australia bought 100 tickets. But then I got a letter from the Lottery Board ordering me to end my raffle. They said it was illegal. I tried to explain that I was raising money for my education, but they didn’t care. I was so disappointed. I’d have to sit out another year of flight school. But when I called everyone to explain the situation, nobody would accept their money back. They told me to keep it! It was enough to keep me in the air for months. Then around Christmas that year, one of my mentors invited me to eat lunch at the airport. When I stepped out of the car, everyone who had ever helped me was there. They all started clapping. And somebody handed me the phone. A person on the other end said: ‘You’re live on 94.7, and we’re going to pay for your entire education!’ That was nearly four years ago. I just got my license last week. My plan is to fly for South African Airlines, but first I want to do some teaching. I want to visit schools in black neighborhoods. I want all the kids to see what an African female pilot looks like.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny(1/2) “In tenth grade we were given an assignment to shadow a professional in the workplace. I wanted to be a doctor at the time, so I emailed some hospitals but never got a response. Luckily one of my aunts worked in the back office of South African Airlines, so she invited me to come with her to the airport. I’d never flown on an airplane before. I remember looking out the window at all those big ass planes coming in to land. My aunt could see that I wasn’t interested in the paperwork, so she took me to the crew room. I noticed all the pilots had incredible posture. All their hats were lined up on a shelf. Their jackets were all hanging in a row. And that’s when the bug bit me. I started spending all my holidays there. The pilots were very nice to me. I don’t think they’d ever seen an African female who was so enthusiastic about becoming a pilot. They gave me advice and let me share their simulator time. When I turned eighteen, I visited a flight school and picked up an application. But the costs were too much. My mom said we didn’t have the money, and told me to apply to normal universities. She’d bring me applications, but I kept hiding them under my bed and telling her I got rejected. I found an internship with a glider company, and used my stipend to buy my first pilot’s uniform. I put one stripe on the sleeve—for students. When I came home that night, I think she took me seriously for the first time. She could see her daughter really wanted to fly.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“I hung out in the streets a lot as a child. But when I was seventeen, my parents died in a minibus crash. It forced me to wake up and work for myself. I got my first job as a cleaner. The boss ordered me around for months. But when it was time to pay me, he refused. It left me in a desperate situation. I was hungry. I needed shelter. So I got frustrated. Some of my friends were stealing cars at the time. They had a special key that could open doors. At first I didn’t want to get involved, but they were living the life I wanted. They had nice cars. They could afford to buy drinks. So when they asked me to come along one night, I agreed. I told myself: ‘If I just go along once, I’ll be alright.’ We stole three cars that night. Everyone got away but me. When I saw the police lights in my rearview mirror, I started crying immediately. I knew my life was over. I spent a few years in prison. That’s where I met a social worker named Ms. Palesa. She was near retirement. And when she heard my story, she invited me to come work at her house when I got released. I painted for her. I cleaned. I worked in the garden. Not only did she pay me, but she treated me like her child. She bought me clothes. She encouraged me to learn a trade. Ms. Palesa only lived for a few more years, but she set me on the right path. Every friend that I stole cars with that night is either dead or in jail. But I work every day, and I never committed another crime.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“I carried the burden of doing well from very young in life. My father died early, so things were never very stable growing up. I lived in about ten different places. So from an early age, I decided that I was going to change the narrative. I’d use my gifts and talents to create stability for my family. I did well in academics. I took leadership positions in school. And when I was thirteen years old, I set a goal of becoming the President of South Africa. I always felt destined to achieve something great. But most of all, I wanted to be an amazing mother. For the longest time everything was going to plan. But last year I got pregnant. We were both just beginning our careers. We’d only been dating for a few months. So we decided that we’d try again when the time was right, and I ended the pregnancy. That’s when things began to fall apart. The relationship came to an end. I went through a long stretch of unemployment. After a lifetime of accomplishing my goals, everything stopped working. And I just hadn’t prepared myself for the emotional trauma of the abortion. I convinced myself that I’d made the wrong decision. I’d spent my whole life planning to be this amazing mother, but when it finally happened, I couldn’t show up for it. I fell into a dark place. And I’ve been struggling with it ever since. But there’s a verse in Jeremiah that God knows us in the womb. And whether you live for a day, or a month, or if you’re never born at all—every life has a purpose. So maybe there was a purpose for that life. It interrupted me. It interrupted all the achievements and goals and forced me to examine my truth. I’ve accepted that mistakes happen. Curveballs happen. And that’s where deep learning occurs. On the child’s due date, my best friend took me on a spa day, and she told me something that helped. She said: ‘Every mother has an instinct. And you were just doing what was best for your child. Maybe the pregnancy wasn’t ended. It was just delayed until you’re ready.’” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“I’m trying to give Mom a chance to do other things. She wants to wash her hair and cook dinner, but the baby started crying. So I brought him outside to see if it would help. We’ve gone about thirty minutes without screaming. We’re from Mozambique. I originally came here to find work as a ceiling installer, but I brought my wife along when we found out she was pregnant. The healthcare is much better in this country. It’s too early for them to go back home because the child was born premature, but I’ll feel safer when they’re gone. It’s too dangerous for them here. South Africa is a good place to work, but they don’t like us being here so much. The abuse mainly comes from other black people. They call us names. They tell us to go home. They attack us because they think we’re stealing their jobs. But I’m just doing what I know. They don’t understand what it’s like in my country. You can’t survive with kids. I’m just making the only choice I have.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“My younger sister passed away last year from an unexpected stroke. So I’m raising both my daughter and my niece. In our culture, it’s an automatic. It just kicks in. She belongs to me now. I’m a single mother so it’s not easy. There are definitely months when I add up income and expenses and the numbers don’t work. And both of them are thirteen so their moods are all over the place. Today is like this, and tomorrow is like that. But God has given us favor as well. We can afford to share an ice cream. We have shelter. We have food. And after four months of no work, I just found a new management position. So we’ve come a long way. My niece is beginning to heal. Her grades are improving at school. She still speaks of her mother in the present tense, but there’s no more crying at night. And I’ve grown a lot as well. Because more than I want to acknowledge --the struggle has given me meaning. This is my purpose. I have a little family. And we share what little we have.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny“I have nothing to complain about. I’m originally from Sudan. I love it there. So many happy memories. I got so much love from my family because I was the youngest. Since then I’ve lived in five different countries and I’ve enjoyed every single one. I don’t have a partner, but I have plenty of great friends. I don’t have children, but I’m a lovely uncle. I don’t take any medicine. I sleep well. I can walk around. I don’t know what to say. Every time I think about it, I conclude that I’m happy. I wake up smiling. I lived in Germany for several years. And they have these cameras along the highway that photograph you when you’re speeding. I’ve got a huge collection of photos because I love to speed. It’s always just me alone in my car. And I’m smiling in every one of them.” (Johannesburg, South Africa)humansofny(7/7) “While I was being interviewed on the radio, Carl Wilkens was attempting an impossible mission. He’d gone to military headquarters, and begged an official to let us transport children out of the orphanage. He wanted to move them to a protected church near the UN Mission. His request was denied because the children were Tutsi. But then a miracle happened. As he was leaving the building, the Prime Minister himself arrived for a meeting. Carl ran up to my him and began to plead for the children. The minister told him to slow down and explain himself clearly. Then not only did he grant him permission, but he offered two buses for the transportation. Carl called me and told me to wait at the church. He said he would bring the children to me. I thought it was a suicide mission. There were four hundred people hiding in the orphanage. Many of them were malnourished and looked like fugitives. It was clear they had been hiding out for months. Why would the killers allow them to escape on buses? But it was our only chance, so I came to the church and waited. Carl told me the buses would arrive at 6 PM. But there was no sign of them by 8 PM. It had gotten completely dark. I was losing hope. But suddenly I heard people screaming: ‘Tutsis! Tutsis! Tutsis!’ The buses came around the curve, and pedestrians were chasing behind them. Inside I could see five people piled into every seat. The kids were hanging out the window, screaming: ‘Papa! Papa! Papa!’ Finally all of us were out of danger. We sheltered in the church until the genocide was over, but it didn’t take long. Three days later the capital was liberated. And all of the children had survived.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(6/7) “After people were discovered in the orphanage ceiling, the militia determined that I was a collaborator. They held a high level meeting and passed a resolution to kill me. I barely slept that night. And the next morning I awoke to my name being called out over the radio. It was the voice of the Minister of Social Affairs, and he was ordering me to report immediately to the radio station. I was paralyzed with fear. I didn’t know what to do. Should I go there and be killed? Or wait for them to come kill me? I felt like locking myself away, but my brother forced me to make a decision. So I decided to drive to the radio station. The station director met me at the entrance, and informed me that I’d be doing a live interview on the radio. It would be broadcast across the nation. He sat me down in front of a microphone. My mind was racing. My hands were trembling, but I did my best to not sound nervous. He started drilling me with questions. He asked why there were so many rumors about the orphanage. He asked if I was keeping any secrets. He asked how many people I was hiding. I steadied my voice. I told him: ‘If I was hiding people, would I have come here to meet you? I have nothing but children. They’re just babies.’ He looked at me for a long time. Then he finally spoke into his microphone: ‘Attention, militia! Damas Gisimba is no longer a suspect.’” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(5/7) "One night I was walking the property when I heard the children screaming. They were saying, ‘Papa! Papa! Papa!’ The screams were coming from inside the office. When I ran to see what was happening, I found that a group of killers had entered the building. There were about fifteen of them. They were wearing camouflage and carrying flashlights. They had already begun to pull young men out of the ceiling. I tried to stop them, but I was hit with the butt of a rifle. The blow fractured my arm. I didn’t dare to speak after that. The killers were already angry. If I annoyed them any more, they might harm the children. Six young men were dragged into the kitchen. They were beaten with pieces of wood that had nails sticking out. The killers were screaming: ‘Where are the others? Where are the others?’ At first the young men were begging for their lives, but their voices grew weak from loss of blood. The children heard everything and kept trying to see what was happening. I kept trying to chase them out of the room. I yelled at them to go back to bed. Eventually the young men were taken out to the bushes. All night they were tortured. I stood in the dark and listened to their voices. We were hiding hundreds of people at that point. I was sure they’d give everyone else away. But they never spoke. Their wives and family members were hiding in the ceiling, so they stayed silent until their deaths. They saved all of us. After the genocide, I built this memorial in their honor.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(4/7) “The militias would usually grow tired of killing people by 3 PM, and they would rest for the day. That’s when I’d take people out of the ceiling to stretch their legs. I’d circle the property. I’d walk to a nearby pit where they threw dead bodies. I’d listen closely to see if anyone was still alive, and I’d bring any survivors inside the orphanage. During this time I lost all my emotions and feelings. I became numb. It seemed like any moment the militias would kill us, or a bomb would accidentally hit the orphanage. And honestly I was ready for death. It seemed like it would be the best thing for me. My wife was also feeling hopeless. We saw each other for just a few minutes every night. She was busy trying to keep the babies alive. She’d lost so much weight. Her breast milk was gone. And the children were barely alive. They’d lost all of their muscle. They were just skin and bones. And we were almost out of food so I could no longer bribe the killers. One day two men came in a truck asking for one of my employees by name. They pretended that they had a child with them that needed medical treatment. When she walked out to see the child, they pushed her into the truck and drove away. Thankfully I was able to pull a baby out of her arms. They killed her just a few meters from here, but it was too dangerous to recover her body until after the genocide.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(3/7) “Our most desperate problem was water. The government had cut off our supply. And we were packed so densely that the heat was unbearable. Whenever we brought out jugs of water, one hundred liters would be consumed in less than a minute. After two weeks we’d run out completely. Then one morning I saw a car coming up the road. It had the markings of the Adventist Church. Out stepped a white man with a bulletproof vest. His name was Carl Wilkens. And he was the only American who had remained behind in Rwanda. ‘I heard about you,’ he said. ‘And I’ve come to encourage you.’ I took him around the property. I showed him all the people I was hiding. He could see that I was a nervous wreck. So he began to pray with me. He told me: ‘There is no way a man can survive this. But God will help us through.’ I told Carl that we desperately needed water. Without water we could not even cook our food. So he promised me that he would try to help. After that Carl would drive to the orphanage each week. He’d bring water and milk for the kids. And to this day, I don’t understand where he got it. All of the stores were closed. Carl was the only thing keeping us alive. Every week I was convinced that he would be killed on the journey. The roads were so dangerous. People would shoot out his tires. But every week he showed up with more water.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(2/7) “Over the next few days, the situation grew worse. Bombs were being dropped all around us. The streets had grown very loud. The killers would chant and scream while they chased people. All of the children were terrified. We couldn’t hide the truth from them because they knew what was going on. Some of the children who were arriving from the outside had witnessed their parents being killed. Even the babies knew how to say: ‘Don’t kill me. I’m not a Tutsi.’ The adolescent boys were especially vulnerable. We hid them in the ceiling. We had no fence around the orphanage back then, so there was nothing to protect us. Just a line of trees. Every day the militias would come looking for targets. I'd meet them here at the entrance and try to bribe them with food. I’d tell them: ‘I know your families are hungry. Take this and go away.’ Luckily I had a shipping container full of porridge, corn, beans, and biscuits. But word spread quickly. The killers told each other: ‘If you tell Damas that you are going to kill his children, he will give you food.’ So more of them began to come. And their demands grew larger. So our food supply ran very low. And the people kept coming. Eventually 400 people were being hidden in the orphanage. We were like sardines in a can. We had no food. No water. No electricity. No life.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(1/7) “I inherited this orphanage from my father. I was in my twenties at the time. I had other dreams for my life, but the responsibility fell on me. When my father passed away, he begged me: ‘Damas, please don’t abandon the children.’ So I promised him that I never would. When the genocide began in 1994, I’d been managing the orphanage for several years. I was thirty-three. I was newly married. I had a one-year-old child at home. When I heard news of the president’s assassination, I immediately ran to comfort the children. Gunfire had begun to enter the air. We were housing about 65 children at the time. Many of them were Tutsis. I told the staff that nobody was allowed to leave the orphanage. As the day passed, more and more people began arriving. I had a reputation in the community for helping people. So everyone came to me for shelter. Their neighbors had turned against them. Many of them were being chased by killers. I knew that the penalty for sheltering Tutsis was death, but I didn’t have the heart to turn them away. So I invited everyone inside. I thought: ‘We have institutions in this country. The United Nations is here. The danger will be over soon.’” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny“It might not seem possible for a nation to heal from genocide so quickly. And some might think that our reconciliation is surface level. But it runs deeper than that. If we were truly a nation playing ‘make believe,’ our progress would have been impossible. Rwanda’s per capita GDP has grown nearly 500% since the genocide. And I understand that economics might seem like a dry subject, but you must consider what it represents. It represents Rwandans working together. And trading together. And trusting each other. It represents a consensus that our best future is a shared one. Without true reconciliation, we’d have never come this far. Do tribes still exist in Rwanda? Of course. There will always be divisions between us. I can’t ask people to forget about these things. But I tell them: ‘Consider the ways that we are a single tribe. We all speak one language. We all have the same culture, and dances, and behaviors. So be proud of who you are. But also be proud of being Rwandan. Because that is something all of us are.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny“There was a huge puzzle after the genocide. How do you pursue justice when the crime is so great? You can’t lose one million people in one hundred days without an equal number of perpetrators. But we also can’t imprison an entire nation. So forgiveness was the only path forward. Survivors were asked to forgive and forget. The death penalty was abolished. We focused our justice on the organizers of the genocide. Hundreds of thousands of perpetrators were rehabilitated and released back into their communities. These decisions were agonizing. I constantly questioned myself. But each time I decided that Rwanda’s future was more important than justice. It was a huge burden to place on the survivors. And perhaps the burden was too great. One day during a memorial service, I was approached by a survivor. He was very emotional. ‘Why are you asking us to forgive?’ he asked me. ‘Haven’t we suffered enough? We weren’t the cause of this problem. Why must we provide the solution?’ These were very challenging questions. So I paused for a long time. Then I told him: ‘I’m very sorry. You are correct. I am asking too much of you. But I don’t know what to ask the perpetrators. ‘Sorry’ won’t bring back any lives. Only forgiveness can heal this nation. The burden rests with the survivors because they are the only ones with something to give.’” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(9/9) “This is a picture of my father before the genocide. He’s surrounded by his Hutu friends. They’re sharing beer. They’re talking. They always viewed him as a good person. They’d even come to our home and flatter us. They’d tell my sisters and me how good of children we were. And that one day we’d marry their sons. Many of these men would later help kill my family. So how am I supposed to trust anyone? Before the genocide, there were doctors taking care of their patients. Priests were taking care of their followers. Neighbors were taking care of each other. But none of that stopped them from killing each other. And now we’re being asked to forgive. Because our president tells us that reconciliation is the only path forward as a nation. And I know that he’s right. So I’m trying my best. I’m spending time with Hutu people. I even found two Hutu elders to mentor my son. I want him to see that Hutus have good hearts. My son even calls them ‘Grandpa.’ So I understand the need for reconciliation. And I’m trying. Christianity has helped me a great deal. But true forgiveness is impossible. My entire family was murdered. How can I possibly forgive on behalf of those who can no longer speak for themselves? It’s just not possible. But I will certainly pretend. Because I’ve seen where vengeance leads.” (Butare, Rwanda)humansofny(8/9) “There were twelve people in my family before the genocide. I’m the only one who survived. We recovered eight of the bodies. And we buried the bones we were able to find. I didn’t trust anyone after the genocide. Even when I was rescued by the Rwandan Patriotic Front, I wouldn’t take the food I was given. I thought it might be poisoned. So I’d eat raw food from the fields. I was losing so much weight but I didn’t care. People looked at me like I was a statue. They assumed my emotions were frozen. They knew my family was dead, and didn’t want to ask me questions. So I held it all in for decades. Who could I talk to anyway? In a nation of one million victims, how do I begin to tell my story? There’s been too much tragedy for everyone. Some people lost their arms and legs. Other people were raped and given HIV. What makes my story worth telling? Who am I? Why should I ask for sympathy? And who would I even ask? So I never asked anyone. I’ve never asked anyone for a thing. I don’t want anyone to take care of me. I don’t want people to celebrate my birthday. Or cook for me. Or tell me sweet words. I’m fine with giving love. But I can’t accept it. Because I don’t want anything that can ever be taken away.” (Butare, Rwanda)humansofny(7/9) “I woke up to find that I’d been discovered by a soldier. He dragged me to my feet and led me down the street to this alleyway. He pointed his gun at me, and told me to say goodbye to my life. At that point I felt ready to die. But that’s when Mary came running out of her house. She fell at the soldier’s feet and began pleading with him. ‘Leave this girl for me,’ she said. ‘You’ve killed her entire family. Just leave this one for me. God sent her to me.’ She offered the soldier all of her money. She told him: ‘When the war is over, you can come back and take this girl for a wife.’ And that’s what finally convinced him. He handed me over. Mary took me inside and cooked me food. She gave me a change of clothes. She tried to wash my hair, but it was too thick, so she cut it all off. Then she hid me in the bushes behind her house. I stayed there for weeks. Every night Mary would bring me porridge and water. She gave me a little radio so I could follow the news reports. Each day the rebels were getting closer to our town. Mary would encourage me. She’d tell me that it would all be over soon. And that I’d be rescued. She promised me that I’d survive. And Mary was right. I did survive-- because of her.” (Butare, Rwanda)humansofny(6/9) “The next morning, I heard people calling my name and I decided to show myself. I was too exhausted to resist. They told me there had been a general pardon for women and children. And all of us who believed the rumor were taken to this place-- the house of a Tutsi widow. I found my mother and sisters when I arrived. They were still alive, but were so weak and depressed that they could barely move. We stayed in this house for two weeks. There were sixteen of us here. Then one night a soldier came and told us that we were scheduled to be executed. My mother urged my younger sisters to run away, but none of them wanted to leave her side. I begged Francine to escape with me. She was the oldest. We had a chance. But she was too tired. She’d been raped a few days earlier. She told me she was ready for death. Eighty soldiers came to the house that night. They were carrying a list with our names. They began grabbing people. During the struggle, I jumped out the window and hid in a tree. My mother was forty-eight years old. Francine was sixteen. Olivia was fourteen. Noella was eleven. Augtavienne was seven. Claudette was four. And Bebe was almost two. I listened to their screams until I fainted.” (Butare, Rwanda)humansofny(5/9) “On the day I watched my father die, this is the skirt I was wearing. I was only eighteen years old. I completely lost my will to live. I walked down the street like a zombie. I came to this house. The owner wasn’t home at the time because she was busy looting my family’s home. I tried to hide under her bed, but there was another Tutsi man there. He began yelling at me to leave. ‘It’s too small,’ he said. ‘You’ll get us both killed.’ So I ran outside to jump in the toilet, but the killers were already at the door. They dragged the man out from under the bed and killed him before my eyes. They were about to kill me too, but the team leader said he had ‘other plans for me.’ And everyone listened to him because he had a gun. He started leading me toward a plantation. He told me to comply or he’d kill me. He made me lie down on the ground. He unbuttoned his shirt, lay down next to me, and tried to spread my legs. So I grabbed his balls and squeezed as hard as I could. He started trying to punch me. So I squeezed them harder and twisted. He kept writhing around but I didn’t let go until he fainted. Then I began running through the dark. I couldn’t see a thing. I fell into a latrine full of shit, and I remained there all night because I was too tired to move.” (Butare, Rwanda)humansofny(4/9) “Our family was a top target because my father was so prominent. So when the genocide officially commenced, the killing squads came straight to our home. One of our neighbors peeled away from the group and ran ahead to warn us. He came down our street, screaming at the top of his lungs: ‘Run away!’ They are coming to kill you!’ My mother immediately dropped to her knees and started to pray. My father yanked her off the ground. He told us all to get out. Everyone ran in different directions. I don’t know why we split up, but there was gunfire and screaming all around. I followed my mother and sisters to a nearby plantation. The baby was with us. We stayed there for four days. But I didn’t feel comfortable. All around I could hear people hunting for us. They were calling our names. We needed to find a new place. I begged my mother and sisters to run away with me, but they were too depressed. They didn’t have the energy to move. So I went alone and returned to our house. I was looking for our father. I crouched down in a nearby bush and waited for him to return. Early in the morning a crowd of people came marching over the hill. My father was in the center. He was so tall that I could see his face. They marched him to this very spot, because he’d asked to be killed at his own home. I could see everything from the bush. I closed my eyes. I said: ‘Please God, please change this man. Please make it a different person.’ But when I opened my eyes—it was still his face. I saw everything. And the whole time I was trying to imagine it wasn’t him. But when I opened my eyes, it was always him. They finished him off with machetes. When they finally left, I walked over to look at his body. He was seconds away from death. But he was still moving his head back and forth.” (Butare, Rwanda)humansofny(3/9) “If you are being hunted, this bush is one of the best places to hide. Every genocide survivor in Rwanda can tell you about this type of bush. It’s full of thorns. But if you crawl on your stomach, you can get inside. And if you can get inside— you can finally take a rest. The best hiding places are always the most dangerous ones. Farms were no good. Everyone who tried to hide on a farm was discovered. Toilets were no good either. Because that’s where they dumped the bodies. You wanted to find a place where the killers were afraid to go. The higher the risk-- the less chance of getting caught. Swamps were one of the most popular choices because there were so many ways to die in there. It was easy to get stuck in the mud and drown. Most of us couldn’t swim. Or the mosquitos could give you malaria. Or you could be killed by a single snakebite. But the worst were the crocodiles. I’d say fifty percent of the people who hid in the swamps were eaten by crocodiles. My brother tried hiding in a swamp. And he actually survived all these things. He made it all the way to the border with Burundi. But then a helicopter dropped fuel from above and set his swamp on fire.” (Butare, Rwanda)humansofny(2/9) “When the presidential plane was shot down, people began to gossip about the impending genocide. The streets were empty. Nobody was travelling long distances. We started to hear tales of violence. Relatives from other regions would arrive on our doorstep with horror stories. My father came home one day and told us about a Tutsi janitor at the university. He cleaned clothes for the students. That day he’d been tortured to death with his own iron. I grew very depressed during this period. I wanted to be alone all the time. Some nights my family would sleep in a nearby church for safety, but I’d remain in the house alone. I could feel something terrible in the air. Then on April 21st, the genocide officially came to our town. The militia gathered up Tutsi pedestrians in the city center. They brought them to this stadium. There were 200 people in all. They put them in lines. Then they opened the doors and invited the public to fill the seats. The governor was forced to sit in the front row. He had mixed blood and was against the genocide. After the last person was executed, they brought the governor down and killed him too. His body was paraded through the streets. The killers were screaming into an intercom: ‘We’ve killed the governor! Anything is possible! Now let the hunt begin.’” (Butare, Rwanda)humansofny(1/9) “My father was well respected in the community. He was a university lecturer and a choir member. But he was always working, so my mother was primarily the one who raised us. Her name was Consolee. She had this deep sorrow about her. She was an orphan because her parents had been killed in the 1963 genocide. Whenever we asked her to tell the story of our grandparents, she’d just say: ‘Give it time. Soon you’ll see for yourself.’ I tried to help her as much as I could. The eldest daughter acts like a mother in our culture, so I raised my six younger sisters. They thought I was too strict. They were always saying that I behaved like a nun. But they looked up to me too. And they loved me. Occasionally I’d help to keep them out of trouble. When my sister Francine cut her foot on a bottle, she was terrified to tell our mother because she wasn’t supposed to be barefoot. I helped her conceal the crime by cutting a hole in the bottom of her shoe. At night all my sisters would pile into my bed. They’d beg me to tell them stories. And I always did, until they fell asleep, and I’d carry them into their beds one by one. The youngest was a boy. He always took the longest because I had to rock him to sleep. His name was Edmond Richard, but we called him ‘Bebe.’ He was was 1.5 years old when the genocide began.” (Butare, Rwanda)humansofny(6/6) “I was given the opportunity to visit Rwanda as part of my internship with the US Senate. I was accompanying an important delegation. But they must have thought I was crazy, because when we arrived in Rwanda, I began speaking to people in the streets. I was convinced that everyone looked like me. I wanted to find members of my family. I wanted to see my old school. I wanted to find my old house. But all I could remember was the location of my grandmother’s house because it had been so close to the airport. So that’s where we went. We knocked on the door. I didn’t reveal my identity. When I asked the current resident if he knew about me, he told me that I had been killed. But then he said that some of my family was still alive. He told us that my sister was working at a nearby market. So we decided to drive there. The sun was going down. At this point I was sure that I’d lost my mind. Because we drove by a playground, and I saw a little boy that looked exactly like me. I even took his photo. I had no idea that he was my brother. When we arrived at the market, it was almost completely dark. But I saw my sister. And she saw me. She recognized me immediately because of the scar on my forehead. Our brother had given me this scar when we were toddlers. He didn’t survive the genocide. When my sister saw me, we embraced. We both started crying. And she told me everything that happened while I was gone. And I won’t share the details, because those aren’t my stories to tell. But she gave me the biggest news of all. I remember picking up the phone, and immediately calling Anne Peterson. I told her: ‘Mom, you’re not going to believe this. But I just found my mother.’” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(5/6) “During high school I got a lot of counseling. I began to process what had happened to me. I remember in tenth grade we had an English teacher who used to tell us to look in the mirror every morning and say: ‘I’m good and I’m beautiful.’ But I would always add: ‘And I’m extremely lucky.’ I’d look at myself closely and try to recognize my mother. I started reading a lot of books. One of them was called Anne of Green Gables, about an orphan girl who was different. I decided that I was going to be like Anne and not let my bad luck ruin my life. I went to college at Washington State. I got an internship to work in the US Senate. I even dreamed about one day becoming Secretary General of the United Nations. But it was during this time that I also began to meet other people who’d escaped from Rwanda. I listened to their stories. And I began to realize the full context of what happened during the genocide. I read about it obsessively. I learned that the world had abandoned Rwanda. The United Nations may have saved me, but they failed everyone else. One million people were left to die. At first I felt angry. Then the anger turned into guilt. Why had I survived? For the longest time I didn’t even want to tell my story. Because I didn’t want to give the United Nations any credit. I didn’t want my story being used to put a positive spin on the situation. I felt confused and conflicted. But then at the age of twenty-one, I was given an opportunity to return to Rwanda.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(4/6) “After a year we were chosen for resettlement in the United States. As soon as we arrived, I was separated from my grandmother. She was put in a nursing home, and two months later she passed away. It was the first time I’d cried since I left Rwanda. She was all I had left. I lived with my uncle for awhile but he was very abusive. He treated me like a maid. So I was removed from the home and put into foster care in Boise, Idaho. But that was also a bad situation. I was on the verge of running away. And I’m pretty sure my social worker informed my school. Because my art teacher started asking me about my plans. Her name was Anne Peterson. She was one of those teachers that you could talk to about anything. So I answered all her questions. I told her my story. And I started bragging about my plan to take care of myself. I think she decided: ‘Absolutely not.’ Because that’s when she chose to become my Mom. Oh my God, it was amazing. Ms. Peterson lived in a big, beautiful house. I was the only child there. I had my own room. It was safe. I didn’t have to worry about surviving. Mom took care of everything. She would wake me up to go to school every day. She always made sure I had lunch. She took me out to eat at restaurants. It was amazing. I was already fifteen years old. But for the first time in years, I felt like a kid.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(3/6) “The plane took us to a refugee camp in Nairobi, Kenya. It would be our home for the next year. When I finally learned what was going on, I became one hundred percent convinced that my mother had been killed. Other refugees were telling me stories. Many of them had lost their entire families. My uncle told me that everyone in our neighborhood had been captured, and he was almost positive that my mother was dead. Surely if my mother was alive, she would have come for me. My grandmother’s house was not far from our home. So I accepted the truth. But I didn’t have much time to think about it. Because we had to fight for survival in the refugee camp. My grandmother was paralyzed and couldn’t chew hard food. So I’d spend my days trying to find her things to eat. I’d negotiate with people for their eggs and bananas. I spent the rest of my time by her side. She couldn’t move so I had to keep the flies away. But it wasn’t all bad. I made friends with a few of the other kids in camp. And I remember one time we stole money from the adults. We snuck out of the camp and bought French fries from a roadside shop. They were horrible quality. They came in a little plastic bag. But at the time I remember thinking they were the best thing I’d ever tasted.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(2/6) “We stayed in the house for two nights. On the third morning a neighbor warned us that the killing groups were coming our way, so we decided to leave without packing anything. We were fortunate because my grandmother lived right next to the airport. Her house backed right up to the airstrip, and it was one of the few places in the city still under the protection of the United Nations. So my uncle cut a hole in the fence, and we began running toward some old trucks. We couldn’t run very fast because we were pushing my grandmother in her wheelchair. On the way I lost one of my yellow flip-flops. I remember thinking: ‘My mother is going to kill me when I see her again.’ So I tried to turn back, but the adults screamed at me to keep running. Finally we reached one of the old trucks and climbed beneath it. We stayed under that truck for a week. The UN knew we were there, but they left us alone. Occasionally I’d run out and ask the soldiers for food. There was one soldier in particular who always gave me biscuits and sardines. He felt sorry for me because I was so small. And when the UN finally evacuated, he came and got us. They put us in the back of a cargo plane with some containers. Nobody explained anything to me. I was cold. I was hungry. I was tired. All I wanted to do was go home and see my mother.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(1/6) “I was only ten years old at the time so I don’t remember much. Nobody explains things to you when you’re a child. I was never told that I was different. Or that some people wanted to kill us. My mother basically raised me by herself, but it wasn’t an unhappy childhood. I do remember feeling afraid sometimes. I remember occasionally being kept home from school. And I remember not being allowed to play freely in the streets. But these things were never fully explained to me. When the genocide began, I was visiting my grandmother. It was a school holiday. I’d made good grades that semester, so my mother had bought me a pair of yellow flip-flops as a reward. I was obsessed with them. I remember waking up that morning and realizing something strange was going on. I could hear gunshots outside and people screaming. My grandmother told me to stay inside the house. She’d recently had a stroke and was confined to a wheelchair, so it was just me and her alone in the room. Eventually I got bored and decided to sneak outside to see what was happening. All the streets were empty except for young boys with machetes. That’s when my uncle came over, and I overheard him telling one of the maids that it was extremely dangerous outside. He said that all of us might be killed.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(3/3) “When I woke up, I found myself lying alongside a very deep pit. It was full of bodies. My stepfather was standing over me. Somehow he had learned about the attack, and had come with his bodyguards to rescue me. He picked me off the ground. I was barely conscious. When we returned home, my stepfather called the government to complain about what had happened. But he was told to watch his back. He was told that our family was no longer under protection. My mother begged me stop helping people. She told my bodyguards to not let me leave the house. But by that time the Rwandan Patriotic Front was getting very close to our village. The fighting grew very intense. My family packed everything and fled toward the border with Congo. Four of my sisters were killed on the journey. I remained behind with the seventy people. Our bodyguards were gone. We were helpless. We had no guns. We just prayed the rebels would liberate us as soon as possible. I knew the killing groups would be coming to my home, so I gathered all the remaining biscuits and water. I took everyone to the house of someone who had already been murdered. It seemed like the safest place to be. I closed them inside and padlocked the door. Then I finally ran off to reunite with my family. I learned later that everyone in that house was rescued. Only four of the seventy lost their lives. And almost all of them are still alive today. We remain friends. We’re still neighbors. They bring me gifts. I see them in the streets almost every day, and whenever we meet, they show me their love.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(2/3) “The killings were being encouraged by the national radio station. Every day they would announce how many people had been killed. They’d announce the location of the killings. And they’d give thanks to those who were doing the killing. One morning I was sitting in my bedroom, and I heard an announcement on the radio: ‘Everyone is being killed in Gatobotobo except for those under the protection of the Felix family.’ I knew then that we were in danger. Not long after the announcement, the Minister of Internal Security came to our village for a meeting. It took place on a hill overlooking our property. He could see everything that was happening in our compound. When he left the meeting, his convoy began driving toward our home. The minister was riding in a truck full of armed soldiers. When he passed by me in the street, the truck slammed on the brakes. All my bodyguards ran away and I was left completely alone. My neighbors began to gather around. They were laughing and applauding and saying, ‘This is the guy who was stopping the killings.’ The minister walked over to me. He pushed me on the ground and leaned over my body. He was covered with sweat. His eyes were wide. There was dried spit on the edges of his lips. He had the face of the devil. He took off his belt and began beating me until I lost consciousness.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(1/3) “The genocide was an opportunity to get rich. Murdering people was the quickest way to accumulate wealth. We were given permission from the government to seize the property of anyone we killed. We were told it was our god given right. But I never felt the temptation. My family owned a very big supermarket. I had my own car. When the killings began in 1994, I had a scholarship to study in Greece and I was just waiting to begin university. My stepfather was Vice President of our region, so we had four bodyguards in the house. These guys were highly trained with automatic weapons. They became good friends of mine. I’d take them to the bar every night. I’d drive them around and buy them anything they wanted. They were also good human beings. One night over drinks we discussed the genocide, and all of us decided: ‘We’re going to put an end to this in our neighborhood.’ The next morning I woke up to my neighbor screaming. I looked out the window and saw that he’d been surrounded by a mob with machetes, and was bleeding badly from the head. I’d been friends with him since childhood. So I sent my bodyguards to save him. The machetes were no match for our guns. Word spread quickly after that. Tutsi families came to our compound seeking refuge. I took long walks with my bodyguards every morning, looking for people to save. We drove to surrounding farms and searched the fields for survivors. At one point we had seventy people under our protection. Nobody challenged us. I was young and cocky. I thought we were untouchable.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny“My father was a talented engineer. He could fix any type of truck, and he used his income to help the poor. Our neighbors’ school fees and hospital bills were always paid. My mother would bring needy people to our table, and order us to give them the best portions of meat. She’d explain that these people rarely had the chance to eat well. Both my parents were very religious. But they always taught us: ‘Humanity first. Everything else comes after.’ When the genocide began, they invited our Tutsi neighbors to hide in our house. There were seven of them. Some lived under the beds. Others lived in the cupboards. I was a teenager back then and my job was to change the waste buckets. It was a miserable existence, and it went on for months. But we prayed with them. We tried to give them hope. We told them that God was in control. At night we’d give them Muslim dress so they could go in the backyard and get fresh air. Our neighbors suspected us because our curtains were always closed. We never slept because we knew the penalty for hiding Tutsis was death. But all seven people in our house survived. Unfortunately my mother and father died a few years ago, so I must tell their story for them. Their names were Mukamunosi Adha and Gasano Juma. They saved seven lives. And they valued love and humanity more than anything.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(4/4) “I managed to escape that day, but things had grown desperate. In the end there were two thousand of us trying to survive. We’d begun to run out of food. The militia was losing on the battlefield and began to grow frustrated. Two days before our rescue, they came to the church for a final big attack. They were going in every room. They were finding everyone. Some of the mothers were lying on mattresses over their sons, trying to hide them. But it was no use. I’d managed to climb into the ceiling. I’d poked holes in the exterior wall so I could breathe. Through those holes I could see everything that was happening outside. They tied every boy up, two-by-two. They brought them to this exact spot and began to beat them. Their mothers were screaming and crying from inside the building. One group of boys was pulled to the center. These were my friends. We played soccer together. We studied together. Sebajura. Galindo. Muyoboke. Jean Bosco—he was a believer. They walked up to Jean Bosco and kicked him in the head. They told him: ‘We know you are a friend of Masengo. Tell us where he is.’ And Jean Bosco knew. He knew where I was. He’d seen me climb into the ceiling. But he didn’t say a word. So they beat him harder. They kept saying: ‘Tell us, tell us, tell us.’ But he kept silent. He kept silent until his last breath. And then they shot him. Jean Bosco died because of me. He died for me. Seventy-two young men died that day. The crowd screamed the entire time. But that night when I finally climbed down from the ceiling, everyone was silent. Nobody was saying a word.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(3/4) “One morning the killers brought a list of names, and gathered everyone together. They told us to sit on the floor. They stepped through the crowd and began reading out the names. My name was called out, but it was misspelled by one letter. They kept shouting ‘Marengo’ instead of ‘Masengo.’ But I knew it was me they were looking for. They told the crowd: ‘If you give up these people, we won’t come back to kill your sons and daughters.’ But nobody spoke. The killers were examining one person at a time. I sat with my head between my knees. Back then I had the face of a girl, so I tried to cover myself with fabric. Some of the killers were from my neighborhood. I knew that when they got around to me, I would be recognized. So I slipped out and ran toward a banana plantation. One of them spotted me and alerted the others. I jumped over a brick fence and dove into the tallest grasses I could find. Soon I heard footsteps. They were walking all around me. I remember one of them saying: ‘Cockroaches are so mysterious. How are they able to disappear?’ He got so frustrated that he hacked at a banana tree with his machete. The leaves fell on my legs. I was lying with my cheek on the dirt. I remember the exact time because my watch was next to my face. It was 12:22 PM. I remember thinking: ‘This is the time I’m going to die.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(2/4) “The conditions were tolerable at first. We were eating twice a day. We could take showers. But people kept pouring into the church compound. Eventually there were two thousand of us. All the young men began sleeping in the ceiling. Women and children slept on the floor. Beds were given to the elderly. All of the priests abandoned us except for one. His name was Celestin Hakizimana, and he stayed with us until the very end. Every day he’d put on his gown, and stand right here at the gate. When the killers arrived, he would tell them: ‘We only have innocents here. Go find the enemy on the battlefield.’ If they refused to leave, he would take them to the church office and bribe them with money. Once the killers tried to lure him from the compound by saying his father was dead, and that he was needed at the funeral. But he told them: ‘Please send my blessings.’ He wouldn’t abandon us. If any survivors knew the location of their family, Father Celestin would do his best to find them. He would put on his gown and drive out into the world. One night he came back bloodied and beaten. He had been stopped at a roadblock, laid down in the road, and kicked in the street. But the next day he put on his gown once more, and drove out into the world. He couldn’t always keep the killers out. Some days they’d come with lists of people to kill. And there was nothing he could do. He’d do his best to fool them by creating a registry of fake names. But then they would choose people randomly. They’d drag out twenty people at a time and bring them to their death. Nothing could be done.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(1/4) “When we heard the president had been killed, I ran into the street with my friends. We wanted to see what was happening. Immediately two men came running after us with guns. They were pointing at us and screaming: ‘You killed the president!’ All of us ran in different directions. I ducked into a neighbor’s house and climbed into the ceiling, but my shoes fell off and landed on the bed. The men discovered my shoes and they climbed into the ceiling after me. Luckily I squeezed into a place they could not fit. But when they finally left, the owner of the house told me I had to find another place. He told me that people were hiding at the church of St. Paul, and that I should go there. I left at 3 AM. I walked through the forest. I could hear gunfire and screaming in the dark. The church was less than a kilometer away but the journey took me two hours. When I finally arrived, I discovered hundreds of other survivors. We were housed in the building behind me. Every hour more people would arrive. Each time a newcomer came through the front door, we would rush to them for news. I learned that my brothers had been killed. They had run to a nearby church, but the pastor opened its doors to the killers. Another person told me that my mother had been killed. She’d taken refuge in a nuns’ compound. She was randomly chosen for death and shot in the head at 10 AM. She lived until 5 pm. But by the time I heard this, I couldn’t even cry. I was completely numb. I was just waiting to die myself.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(3/3) “The killers formed a search party the next morning. They gathered at the top of the hill. We could see them coming toward us, searching every house along the way, and pulling out more people to join the hunt. The mob was growing very big. I knew that the end was upon us. But the fighting was very intense that day. Rockets were flying over our head, and some of them began landing on the hill. One landed so close to the search party that they scattered in different directions. I pulled everyone out of the hiding place and moved them to the forest behind our house. Every night I’d wait until the streets were empty, and I’d bring them food. For two weeks it went on like this. I rationed what little we had. I lost all my weight because I was too scared to eat. My breasts completely disappeared. I didn’t even feel like a woman anymore. I’d nearly given up on life. Every morning I’d pray for the day to finish. And every night I’d pray for the morning to come. My husband wanted us to escape. The only reason we remained in Kigali was to feed those people. And after three weeks the capital finally fell. The Rwandan Patriotic Front was advancing, and the Hutu boarded busses to flee the city. Even the people who were hiding told me to abandon them. So I gave them each a final ration of food and escaped. But all of the people hiding on this property were rescued. And every single one of them is alive today.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(2/3) “It was too dangerous to hide the man in the house. So I brought him to this small room in the back, which we sometimes rented to tenants. I pushed him inside and locked the door. When I was opening our shop the next morning, another man came running to me for help. He was limping badly. He was out of breath and drenched in sweat. I recognized him as a prominent Tutsi businessman. ‘Save my life!’ he screamed. ‘They are chasing me!’ So I quickly pulled him to the back of the house and locked him in this same room. A few minutes later the killers arrived. They searched all over the main house, but never checked the back room. Over the next few days, six more people came looking for help. We hid them all. But my neighbors had been spying on us. They reported everything. And one night the killers showed up with guns. When they knocked on the door, my husband started shivering and couldn’t stand up. I told him: ‘You’re the man of the house. You must stand firm and face them.’ But he couldn’t move. So I went to the door myself. The killers were standing there with a list of the people hiding in our house. ‘Where are these cockroaches?’ they said. I tried to tell them that we had no cockroaches, but they pushed past me and started searching. They beat my husband until he was unable to speak. I offered them all the money we had, and only then did they stop. But they told us that they’d be coming back during the daylight for a house-to-house search.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(1/3) “My husband and I were shopkeepers at the time of the genocide. We sold groceries on one side of the shop, and on the other side we had a bar. On the night the president’s plane was shot down, the place was full. Everyone was dancing and listening to music. We heard a large explosion but didn’t think anything of it. Everyone just went back to dancing. But the next morning people began shopping frantically. We were selling food in large quantities. When we were down to the last 100 kilograms of potatoes, I decided not to sell anymore. I could tell that danger was coming. Nobody came to the bar that night. The streets were empty and quiet. People were either planning violence, or they were hiding. Kigali was one of the first cities to be liberated during the genocide. So almost immediately there was fierce fighting throughout the city. The killers knew they had to murder as quickly as possible. They were herding groups of Tutsis onto bridges and shooting them all. My husband and I had a reputation for being friendly with Tutsis, so we were suspected of being traitors. Our neighbors began watching us closely. We feared for our lives. We had a lot of property, so we knew there was a big incentive to murder us. When the first Tutsis came to us looking for shelter, we turned them away. But one night I was walking near the house, and I heard a close friend calling to me from a tree. He was dying of hunger. It had been raining all day. I said to myself: ‘The property isn’t worth it,’ and I invited him inside. I didn’t even inform my husband.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(4/4) “The journey to the border took nearly four hours. Our pace was very slow because there were so many kids in the group, and everyone was weak from hunger. We had to avoid the main roads. Thankfully I’d mapped out the route so I could find our path in the dark. All of us were frightened. Even if we heard an animal, everyone would jump. When we arrived at the border, I pointed the group toward Burundi and headed back to camp. I was confident that I’d avoided detection. Several days passed without incident. I even managed to run one more mission with a mother and child. But somehow news leaked out. And one night when I was returning from patrol, a Tutsi solider met me at the door of the barracks. He was out of breath. ‘You are already dead,’ he said. ‘They will torture you.’ I thought he was just being paranoid, but then I heard my name being called out on the radio. Orders were given to shoot me on sight. I left everything behind and began to run. I hopped over the fence. I didn’t stop running until I arrived at the border. The next time anyone saw me, I was on television bearing witness to the crimes I had seen.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(3/4) “Our base was only twenty kilometers from the border with Burundi. After the first day of killings, I rode to the border on a bicycle-- just to study the route. I knew that I was taking a giant risk. But I was a religious person. I was a Christian before I was a soldier. So for me, killing innocent people was more of a risk than trying to help them escape. Many Tutsi families were part of my church community. I had prayed with them many times. So when one of them reached out for help, I could not refuse. They told me their neighbors had just been murdered. They feared they were next. So I told them to gather in one place and meet me at midnight. I snuck out of the camp. I told my roommate to tell everyone I was sick on the toilet. When I got to the meeting place, I was expecting to find one family, but there were twenty-three people waiting. Many of them were too scared to come out of the bush. They saw my uniform and thought I was leading them to their death. But the mother of the family gathered everyone together for prayer. She said: ‘Lord, we are frightened. But we are going to trust our brother in Christ to take us to safety.’” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(2/4) “There had always been permission to kill any Tutsis we discovered while on patrol. But on April 6th our instructions became very clear: every Tutsi was to be found and killed. It was even said over the radio. Our first official order was to drive to a nearby city and open fire on unarmed civilians. Most soldiers carried out the orders with glee. The hatred had sunk into their core. Let it be remembered that the killings were pursued with pride, passion, and determination. Soldiers fired indiscriminately at people walking down the road. I pretended to participate, but I didn’t pull the trigger. That night we returned to the camp and everyone swapped stories. They bragged about how many people they’d killed. It became a competition. Soldiers would radio from other bases, and say: ‘We’ve killed so many already. Why can’t you keep up?’ All of it was sickening. I couldn’t eat for weeks. But it was most traumatizing for the Tutsi soldiers in our army. My roommate was a Tutsi. He had to pretend like he was enjoying the murder of his friends and family. He had to laugh along with the others to save his own life. He could only remove his mask with me. And he was the only one that I trusted with my plan.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(1/4) “When I was twelve years old, they undressed a Tutsi girl in front of my entire school. They wanted to see if her private parts were the same as other people. She kept trying to cover herself with her hands while they pulled out her hairs one by one. I can still hear the laughter. Even with all the violence that came later, that was the most traumatic moment of my life. It’s still the image I see when I’m trying to fall asleep. The genocide didn’t begin until many years later, when I was twenty-five years old. I was a soldier in the army. I could tell the atmosphere was growing more and more tense. Our commanders were openly using ethnic slurs. There was talk of ‘wiping our enemies from this country.’ One night I was assigned to guard four Tutsi prisoners. They’d been accused of making explosives but were clearly innocent civilians. They’d been tortured. Their wounds were rotten and stinking. A major came to the cell at 1AM and ordered me to step aside. ‘These people need to be killed immediately,’ he said. But I refused. I told him those were not my instructions. He pushed and screamed, but eventually he stormed off. The prisoners were released a few days later, but someone followed them out and killed them. It was a sign of things to come.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(4/4) “We didn’t lose a single person. After hiding out for three weeks, we were rescued by the Rwandan Patriotic Front. Everyone came running in from the fields. All of us were cheering. In the end, over three hundred people survived the genocide by hiding in this church. I can’t remember all their faces. Life has taken us to many different corners. And some of them have left the country to begin new lives. But many of them still call me father. I’ve given away the bride in several different wedding ceremonies. Occasionally people will randomly show up on my doorstep with drinks. I’ll say to them: ‘You were with us in the church, weren’t you?’ And we’ll embrace. When I look back, I believe the genocide could have been stopped if more pastors had taken a stand. We were the ones with influence. The killers belonged to our congregations. And we could have held them back. But instead we did nothing. And every pastor had a different excuse. Some said they didn’t know things would get so bad. Some said they were too afraid. And some said the government was too powerful to oppose. But when you’re standing aside while people die, every excuse is a lame one.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(3/4) “The next time the killers came, there were fifty of them. All of them had guns or machetes. They pushed straight past me and entered the pastor’s residence. They began pulling people out of the ceiling. They were kicking us and dragging us along the floor. I knew this was the end. I could see our death clearly. Some people were shivering and wailing and screaming for mercy. Others were completely silent. They’d already lost so many loved ones and they were ready to die themselves. We were dragged to this very spot and put in three lines. We began to say our last prayers. I scanned the mob of killers for recognizable faces. Many of them were Christians. Some were even from my congregation. Every time I recognized a face, I called to him by name. I said: ‘When I die, I am going to heaven. Where will you go?’ Then I pointed to the next man, and asked him the same question. Then the next. Then the next. Some of the killers grew nervous. They began to argue amongst themselves. Nobody wanted to be the first to kill. Soon they were threatening to shoot each other. And they began to leave, one by one, until all of them had run off.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(2/4) “We filled every hiding place with a person. Some were in the ceiling. Some were in the cupboards. Some were under the floor. There were even two people in this toilet. That very first evening the militia came to my front gate. Some were carrying guns. Others were carrying machetes. They’d been told that I was hiding people. They demanded to come inside and search the property. I stood in the doorway and told them that they’d have to kill me first. ‘We’ll be back,’ they said. ‘And thanks for gathering the cockroaches into one place. Because it will be easier to kill them here.’ Days passed by. We were an abandoned, dying group. Our food ran out quickly. Thankfully some church members answered my call, and agreed to sneak us food after dark. The nights were the worst. We could hear gunfire and screaming in the surrounding hills. Always we thought we were next. Nobody was sleeping. My wife and I lost so much weight. All our friends abandoned us. They pretended not to know us. Only one pastor stood by our side. He came to me one night and warned me that there was a plan to attack the church. I told the news to my wife, and we both agreed that we were ready to die.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofny(1/4) “First came the meetings. They were openly advertised on community microphones. Their stated purpose was to discuss ‘current issues,’ but everyone knew that killings were being organized. These things were being openly discussed on the radio at the time. I was always invited to these meetings, but I never attended. I was a pastor. I wanted no part in those discussions. But when the killings finally commenced on April 7th, people came running to my church for sanctuary. The first of them arrived early in the morning. They were trembling and too scared to speak. All they could say was: ‘Hide us, hide us.’ I told everyone to go inside the church. I said: ‘If our God is true, we will be OK.’ Finally a young man arrived who was able to talk. ‘They killed my parents,’ he said. ‘All of us are being hunted.’ I was also terrified but I tried not to show it. I just kept bringing people inside the gate. By the time the sun went down, there were over three hundred people hiding on this property.” (Kigali, Rwanda)humansofnyOn April 6th 1994, an airplane carrying the President of Rwanda was shot down over the capital city of Kigali, serving as a catalyst for genocide against the minority Tutsi population. One million people were killed over the next 100 days. It was one of the most violent episodes in human history. The stories from that time can be traumatizing to hear. Living through them is nearly unimaginable. But in the wake of this tragedy, an equally unlikely story has unfolded. It is the story of Rwanda’s recovery and reconciliation. Rwanda has become one of Africa’s model economies. Its streets are clean and safe. Over one million tourists visit each year. If you walk through Kigali today, it’s difficult to imagine the events that occurred less than twenty-five years ago. But the stories are still there. And you can’t listen to them without being reminded of humanity’s capacity for violence and the fragility of peace. During my week in Rwanda, I focused on the stories of people who took a moral stand during the genocide. These are members of the Hutu majority who risked their lives to shield and protect Tutsis. In Rwanda they are known as ‘The Rescuers.’ Over the next several days, I will be sharing their stories.humansofny“I thought it was a prank. I was only twenty years old. It was the first time we’d ever had sex. We discussed ending the pregnancy but I begged her to consider keeping it. Both of our families were supportive. I promised that I would provide. And once we decided to keep the child, I started earning money however I could. I learned to print t-shirts and do graphic design. I sold my phone to buy a camera. My mother even took out a loan to help me buy it. There was no photography school in this country, so I had to learn everything myself. I took so many pictures of my daughter growing up. My mother would sit for lighting practice. I watched YouTube videos. I watched every single class on Creative Live. Finally I got good enough that someone hired me to take pictures of their party. Then I moved on to weddings and corporate events. Now my dream is to become a documentary photographer. There are so many stories to tell in this country, but very few outlets will publish them. That hasn’t stopped me though. I’ve photographed a slaughterhouse with horrible conditions. I’ve interviewed World War II veterans across the country. Last year I spent three days documenting a ‘women-only’ village in Kenya. Nobody would publish the work so I paid for the trip with my savings. My wife has been so supportive. She helps me edit the photos. One day I’m hoping to sell my stories to international media. And if I’m able to establish myself, I’d like to begin my own photography school in Ghana.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“I wanted to be a billionaire by the age of thirty. It was a literal goal. I wanted to be the African version of Bill Gates or Warren Buffett. My parents always told me to work hard, and the money will come. It just seemed like the prize you got for checking all the boxes. And I always checked the boxes. I made straight A’s. I went to Howard University. I worked at Goldman Sachs after graduating. The plan was to make money, build relationships, then return to Ghana and create some businesses. But my first business took too long to get off the ground. Then I got frustrated and poured all my savings into another business. Both of them were self-sustaining for a while, but it’s been a struggle since then. Right now I’m trying to raise more funds and it’s not going well. And I’m a far reach from where I wanted to be. My confidence is shaken. I’m unsure of my next step. And I’m approaching forty. I’m trying to manage the disappointment by changing my perspective. I try to remind myself that I have a beautiful wife and son. I’ve employed people. And I’ve had some great experiences. I no longer feel the need to be a billionaire. My new goal is to have a successful business that I can work at every day. But in the back of my mind, I keep wondering: ‘Am I developing a more realistic perspective? Or is this what quitting sounds like?’” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“When I remember that December is coming, I get anxious. We pay rent at the end of the year and we don’t have it. We’re saving all we can but we’re only halfway there. My husband sells kabobs but it’s not going well. I’m selling bananas to help out. My children are wearing torn school uniforms. I can only afford books for some of them. I prioritize by who will get in the least amount of trouble with their teachers. The smallest one doesn’t have any books right now, because I need the oldest one to get high marks. I don’t know what I’ll do if we get evicted. But I bounce back. I’m a happy person. And all of the shopkeepers around here are my friends. We keep each other distracted. We play jokes on each other. We make each other laugh. And we share what we have. Some of them are drivers, and if they drive out to the province, they’ll bring back food for me. So life can be good. Things are manageable. And I’m fine as long as I stay busy. I only withdraw when I remember the challenges I have.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“There’s no decorum in this country when it comes to childbirth. Our society expects you to have children. People start watching your stomach immediately after marriage. Soon the questions begin from family, friends, and eventually complete strangers. Thankfully I have a supportive partner, because we went through seven miscarriages and two stillbirths. The pressure from family was unbearable. I was made to drink potions. I bathed in holy water. At one point I was even stripped naked in front of people to be scanned in the spirit realm. It doesn’t matter how much education you have. You get to the point where you’ll try anything. You don’t feel like a woman anymore. After years of trying, we finally visited a special doctor who said: ‘There’s nothing wrong with you. Go on holiday. Enjoy life.’ We dismissed his opinion because we’d given up, but nine months later our son was born. Today I have three children. Because of my difficulties, I try to help women who are going through the same thing. I run a little community called My Sister’s Keeper. We offer free therapy and fertility counseling for women who are having trouble. But mainly it’s a place to cool off. To get a free spa treatment. To feel like a woman. And to think about anything but having a baby.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny(3/3) “It’s not easy being king. I have to follow many of the old rituals. I cannot be seen in public without an escort. I must always eat alone. And the power isn’t what it used to be. We’re living in a different time. We aren’t battling for territory anymore. We aren’t petitioning the colonies. The palace still rules on minor disputes, but mainly my power is indirect. I advocate for my people when the national government is setting its agenda. I enjoy the role. I want to improve the lives of all my subjects. I want them to have clean water. I want them to have quality education. But my main focus is development. I want our kingdom to become a tourist hub. The income would transform so many lives, and we have so much to offer. We have a beautiful river. We have a great history. And we have some of the oldest artifacts in Ghana. In 1680 the Danes built a castle on our shores, and my people captured it. It was the first time in history that a black man owned a castle. We held it for several years. Eventually we gave it back, on one condition: they had to let us keep the keys.” (Akwamufie, Ghana)humansofny(2/3) “After I was granted asylum, I moved in with some cousins in the Bronx. My first job was washing dishes in the kitchen of an adult home. I was paid $297 every two weeks. But I noticed that the private nursing assistants were paid a lot more, so I enrolled in some classes and received my certification. My first assignment was a quadriplegic named Hector. I ended up staying with him for six years. I fed him, changed his diapers, helped him go to the bathroom-- everything. I really loved him. We went all over the place. We drove to Chicago and California. My shift was the overnight, so sometimes I’d drive him to the club and he’d go dancing in his wheelchair. I’d stand right next to him the entire time. During the day I took classes at Lehman College. I majored in health services. After my graduation, the whispers began once more. Family members were urging me to come home and take my rightful position on the throne. So I said ‘goodbye’ to Hector and moved back to Ghana. I got a job in business until the last king passed away in 2011. And this time when the elders called on me, I was ready.”humansofny(1/3) “I’m the 29th King of the Akwamu Empire. Three hundred years ago we ruled the entire southern part of Ghana. The English described us as ‘bullies.’ The Danes described us as ‘thieves.’ Today I have 120 towns under my jurisdiction. But I didn’t always want to be king. I knew from a young age that it was a possibility. I’m from the royal bloodline. But I just hoped they’d choose someone else. I was in college the first time they tried to coronate me. I was studying accounting. I heard a rumor that the king had passed away and that I would be next. So I panicked. I googled ‘political asylum.’ I took someone else’s passport. I didn’t even bother to change the picture. I’d never left Ghana before, but I took a one-way flight to New York City. I presented myself at the JFK customs counter, and said: ‘You have to help me. They’re trying to make me king.’” (Akwamufie, Ghana)humansofny“When I was eighteen, a large group of students visited Ghana from the UK for a youth development program. It was an expensive program. It cost thousands of pounds. But I got to join for free because they needed some Ghanaians for a smattering of cultural diversity. The program was a mixture of community service and adventure. We actually came canoeing on this very lake. The whole time I was thinking about how much money was being made from our natural resources. And how much of that money was leaving Ghana. I became determined to make Ghana money out of the Ghana environment. So after graduating college, I set out to build a world-class adventure company. It’s been over five years now. We have twelve full time employees and twenty-five adventure locations. Best of all, I think we’re creating an adventure culture in the country. Our clients were 70 percent foreign when we started. Now they’re 80 percent Ghanaian. Behind me is Survival Island. It’s my latest project and biggest risk yet. I constructed a full ropes course, and one day I hope to build the world’s longest zip line. That would really put Ghana on the adventure map.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“It first happened when I was trying to save money for high school. A man offered to help me. He’d give me food sometimes. I’d cook for him and watch his children. But then one night he asked me to sleep with him, and I refused, so he locked the door and raped me. A different boss forced himself on me during a trip and gave me $100 to keep quiet. It’s happened about ten times. It’s not just employers. It’s anyone who offers to help. I’m very religious and my faith would never allow me to do such a thing. But I’m not strong enough. There are times when I’m so desperate. I have kids. I can’t buy food. I can’t buy prescriptions. And someone offers help. They tell me they just want to help, but I know in the back of my mind what’s going to happen. I go with them because I have no choice. And I feel so much guilt afterwards. Of course I don’t tell anyone. I just cry and pray for forgiveness.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“A few years ago my marriage was breaking down. I was depressed. I wanted to leave. But when I tried speaking to my friends about it, most people told me to ‘suck it up.’ They told me not to be selfish, and to think of my children. Church members told me that I’d go to hell. Family members told me that an unhappy marriage was better than being alone. Above all, everyone told me to keep quiet. There’s a taboo in our culture against ‘airing dirty laundry.’ Therapy is stigmatized. So I had nobody to talk to. During that time, I’d lock myself up for days and cry. Luckily there was Qwarme. We grew up together. We’ve been friends since high school. He understood me. But most of all, he just listened. The experience gave us an idea to start a listening channel for other people who needed to talk. I bought a new phone number. We put out a call on social media, inviting anyone to call in anonymously and share their problems. I do most of the listening. But if they’d rather speak to a male, then Qwarme steps in. We’ve helped almost seventy people in the last three years. It’s become a round-the-clock job. Some people call us every day. Others will call once a month but talk for hours. Occasionally we’ll recommend a therapist if it seems like professional help is needed. But other than that, we just listen. And for most people-- that’s enough.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“My mom was left with eight children when my father died. I had to help raise my siblings because I was the oldest. I tried working as a seamstress, but it wasn’t enough. I had to supplement my income by selling eggs. I’d buy my eggs every morning from the same woman. But one morning she sold me bad eggs. Twenty crates of them. They were too small to sell. But I just started praying, and I heard a voice telling me to come to this spot. By the end of the day I’d sold every crate. And this is where my business has been ever since. I raised my siblings with this business. I bought land. I got married. I divorced my womanizing husband. I raised my children. And then I raised my siblings’ children. I did it all on my own. I’ve never had help from anybody. But without this business, I’d have been helpless.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“I was eighteen years old. I went out one night with a male cousin and his friends. I felt safe with him. But he gave me a drink and I started to not feel like myself. He took me home to his house. It was dark inside and I could hear people moving around. I heard murmuring in the shadows. I tried to lock myself in the washroom. But they beat down the door. It lasted all night. They took turns. I was still a virgin when it happened. I had goals for myself. I’d started reading at a very young age. I wanted to go to school. But that night everything changed. I didn’t leave my bedroom for months. I wasn’t going to tell anyone. But unfortunately for me, I got pregnant. I was forced to tell my family. My father didn’t believe me. He said: ‘If you’re old enough to get pregnant, you’re old enough to live on your own.’ He kicked me out of the house. He told me: ‘You’ve used your body once. You can use it again.’ I had to beg on the street. I’d go for days without eating. I hid in the bushes outside my house and begged my siblings for food. But they avoided me like I was a disease. I had to abort the baby. I wasn’t mad at the child, but I had no choice. I was completely alone. That was twenty years ago, and I survived. I’m financially comfortable now. And maybe I’ve found some peace. But I’ve never healed. I don’t want anyone in my life. I got married once but I hated the sex too much. Even then I felt alone. I’ll always live like I have nobody. I’ve made a few friends, but in the back of my mind, I’m on my own. Because I don’t want to feel vulnerable. I don’t want to feel weak. I don’t want to cry. I don’t ever want to need anyone again.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“My father wants me to work in government, but I think there are plenty of problems we can solve ourselves. So I’d rather be an entrepreneur. Two issues we have in this country are erratic power and excess trash. So recently I’ve been dreaming of a waste-to-energy plant. It could be a solution to both problems. I’ve been researching on the Internet for months. The technology exists. But this morning I had a meeting with the electric company, and they told me the power supply is currently stable. There isn’t a market for extra energy. So I’m feeling a little disappointed. But I’m going to explore other ideas. I’m also researching methods to manufacture furniture with leftover sugarcane fiber. I just want to do something about all this waste. It makes me so angry. Our gutters are filled. Our bins are overflowing. I’ve been carrying this trash for a mile because there’s nowhere to put it. And nobody feels responsibility for the problem. In the village where I grew up, everything was clean. Because everyone viewed the land as their own. I wish we’d view our entire country like that. Personally, I don’t want anyone calling Ghana dirty.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“We had a big discussion whether to raise him in Africa or move to the states. We both grew up in Ghana. But I got my PhD in West Virginia, so moving to America was an option. The job opportunities would certainly be better there. Both of us are professors, and you’d probably laugh if you knew what we got paid here. Healthcare would be better too. You don’t hear of people dying in America because they can’t find an open hospital bed. But despite these things, we decided to raise our son here. Because he’d never have to think about the color of his skin. We never have to explain what it means to be black. Or the rules of being black. One day in West Virginia I got an Amber Alert on my phone. All it said was: ‘tall black male.’ I was the only one in sight so I nearly panicked. Then another day I was walking back to my dormitory. I’d just finished teaching a course. Someone drove by in a red truck, threw a hamburger at my head, and called me the ‘N Word.’ It was 3 o’clock in the afternoon. I don’t want to explain that stuff to my child. It’s exhausting to be conscious of your skin all the time. You either become militant or you become defeated. And I understand why it happens, but extremes of anything aren’t good.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“My mother had a lot of problems in her life, so I grew up without her. It was a difficult childhood. Everything that I’ve accomplished came from the kindness of others. My first angel was my grandmother, who let me live with her. My second angel was my first grade teacher. Her name was Madam Felicia. I had no confidence when I met her. I thought I was dull because I never did well on my examinations. But she saw greatness in me. She taught me how to study and think. Then in fourth grade I met my third angel, Madam Faustina. She was also my teacher. After hearing my story, I think she decided to take me as her son. She promised to support me as long as I worked hard. She grew me up. She taught me the Bible. She paid for my books and school fees. I’m in university now, but even yesterday she called to see if I needed anything. I’m currently studying to be a lecturer. I’m taking three different majors. I want to help people. It’s only natural because of all the people who helped me. I feel like there are so many people out there who can do great things, but are doomed unless they find someone to help them.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“My parents didn’t have any money, so I began living with my uncle when I was fifteen. For years he treated me like his own son. Anything I asked of him, he would give me. We played music together. We sang in the choir together. But when he met a new woman, everything changed. He suddenly decided to stop providing for me. I couldn’t buy myself food or clothes anymore. I felt betrayed. So I snuck into his room and took some money from his drawer. His new girlfriend caught me. And she told my uncle when he came home. I cried when he confronted me. But there was nothing I could say. I knew that I had to leave the house. My situation was desperate. I had nothing to eat. I moved in with a friend, and some days we’d share a single bowl of curry. I was forced to figure things out. I began to work harder. I found a job as a cleaner. Now I’m studying to be a chef. I’m twenty-five years old, and for the first time in my life I’m standing on my own two feet. I haven’t spoken to my uncle since that day. But I’m going to see him in a couple weeks. I realize now that I was too old to be depending on him. I felt entitled to his generosity. And when he took it away, I betrayed him. He wanted me to become a man. So I want to tell him that I understand. And ‘thank you.’ And ‘I’m sorry.'" (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“I had some experience with abuse as a young child. Victims are shamed in our culture, so I couldn’t talk to anyone. I had to deal with it myself. I had to grow out of it. I tried to cope by reading books about the human brain. I learned how to heal, and move on, and not be bitter. Only later did I discover that all this was something called ‘psychology.’ I only wanted to get to the point where I didn’t feel shame anymore. And the more I learned, the more I became determined to feel comfortable with sex. I joined sex forums online. I experimented. Eventually I learned so much that I decided to become an educator. I’ve moderated about fifteen discussions so far. I call it: ‘The Sex Talk.’ I’ve spoken at church groups. I’ve spoken at schools. And it’s taken a lot of courage. Because people in this country think that if you’re speaking about it, you’re encouraging it. But I think secrecy is what’s harmful. Why not explain sex to kids? We show them how to do everything else. They need to know that these feelings are natural, and that they have a brain to keep them in check. Either we educate people about sex, or they’ll be confused by it. And if they’re confused by it, they’ll be shamed by it. And if they’re shamed by it—they’ll be controlled by it.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“I’m on the way to buy soft drinks for my mother. I also fetch water, and sweep, and help her wash clothes. She calls me ‘boss’ because I work so hard, but I love to help her because she cares for me so much. She buys me clothes. She reads me storybooks. She sings me gospel songs. She helps me with my homework. She gives me medicine when I’m sick. One time she baked my friend a cake because his parents couldn’t afford any presents. I’m going to buy her a house one day. She’s very dark and beautiful. I really have a wonderful mother.” (Accra, Ghana)humansofny“My husband is a mechanic, but his business is slow. It’s not enough. I’m selling this so my children can go to school. I want them to go above me. I want them to be a great someone in this country. When I see them happy, I feel happy. Every time I pay their school fees, they tell me: ‘Mommy you are the best mommy.’ So I’m out here all day in the sun. Then I go home, I cook, I bathe, I put them to bed, and then I go to sleep. I’ve been sick with malaria this past week. I haven’t been able to work. My husband wants me to rest but the kids are beginning to cry from hunger. The stress is too much for him alone. When I was lying in bed, I just kept praying: ‘God, help me go sell.’ But every time I went outside, my fever was too much. My body felt too cold. And I had to go back inside. Today is my first day back to work. I woke up with no headache, but it’s so bad right now. There’s pain all over my body. I’m just hoping to sell enough to buy tomorrow’s supply.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“The first time I was offered a journalism job in Nigeria, the newspaper owner suggested that I supplement my income with bribes. He told me: ‘I’m giving you a platform. Use what you have to get what you need.’ I knew then that the rumors were true. Journalism in this country was corrupted. There was no idealism. Reporters were writing stories for money. And even more damaging, they were killing stories for money. I didn’t want to participate. I felt it would be more ethical to just find a corporate job. But in 2008, I was given the opportunity to manage a new paper founded by Nigeria’s only Pulitzer Prize winner—Dele Olojede. The paper was called Next. And we tried to change things. We hired young people who were untainted by the culture. Half of them were women. We paid them well and we trained them well. Ethics came first. Accepting gifts was absolutely forbidden. Our paper survived for three years. During that time, we broke major stories every single week. We exposed all sorts of corruption. But we were targeted for our success. Our reporters were detained. Our board members were threatened. The government leaned on our advertisers, and they withdrew one by one. Eventually we were forced to close. But for three years we set the pace. We created a mold. And I believe we changed the media landscape. Investigative journalism is stronger now. Many of our journalists have gone on to start amazing publications of their own. The paper may have been short lived, but I know it had an impact. Revolution is too strong of a word-- but we definitely shook the table.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“I want to live a happy life. I’m tired of living a poor life. I’m trying to save money for school but nothing is working. I’ve left home three different times looking for work. The first time I found a job as a housekeeper. But every morning when I got dressed the man would try to touch me. I was only seventeen. He wouldn’t even stop when I threatened to tell on him. His wife blamed me for his attention. She beat me severely. There were bruises all over my body. She didn’t even allow me to eat. But I tried to stay because I wanted to go to school so badly. Then one morning he tried to rape me in the bath, and I finally ran away. When I found a new housekeeping job, the same thing happened. This time it was a pastor. So a few weeks ago I switched to a cleaning job at an art gallery. But they just fired me for speaking to the visitors. I don’t know why this always happens to me. It makes me so angry. I get mad at my parents for being poor. I get mad at my friends for going to school. When I see their graduation pictures on Facebook, I just start crying. I’m already twenty years old. I should be finishing school, but I haven’t even started yet. But everything has it’s own time. Hopefully my time will come too.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“My uncle was an engineer. He’s the one that exposed me to reading. He’d get a book, finish it, and give it to me. By the time I was twenty I’d read over one thousand books. I learned how to live from the characters I encountered. The first book I ever read was The Passport of Malam Illia, and to this day it’s the reason I never take vengeance. And there’s plenty to be angry about around here. Most of my friends are poor. When we were growing up, police would come to the slum in the evening, pick up my friends, and beat them for no reason. It made me so angry. But books also taught me that we have the power to change things. We can fight for lower fuel prices. We can fight for better medical facilities. I’m actually heading to a protest right now. We haven’t had electricity in this slum for ten days. Why? Because last month we protested and now they’re trying to punish us. But we won’t sit down. Too many poor people don’t realize their own power because they’ve been subjugated for too long. They’re like the chickens I keep in my house. Every time I whistle, the chickens come. Even when I don’t have food in my hand. And that’s how people think. They believe that only government has the power to give. But anything the government has power to give, we have the power to take for ourselves.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“My father died young, but my mother was well-to-do. I was an only child and she took care of me well. She promised me at a young age that she’d send me to Oxford University. So I studied hard. My best subject was English. I wanted to be a lecturer. But my mother passed away the same year that I graduated high school. She’d been sick for so long. Our assets were depleted from the hospital bills. There were no jobs in our village, so I came to the city looking for greener pastures. I taught myself to sew, and now I make men’s suits. It’s not the type of work I wanted to do. I’m tired all the time. Business is slow. Life is expensive. It’s frustrating when you work twelve hours a day and can’t even feed your family well. We don’t have a television. We don’t have a radio. Because everything I have left, I spend on their school. They’re good students. I encourage them to study hard. I always tell them to focus because I want them to go far. And anything I can remember from school, I teach them myself.”
(Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“It wasn’t sudden. He was born four months early. The organs didn’t have enough time to mature. He just wasn’t ready for life. But he held on for more than two years. He was such a happy child. He laughed so hard when you rocked him. We called him ‘Bibi,’ because his older brother couldn’t say ‘baby.’ Toward the end, he was learning to stand on his own. We honestly thought he was going to make it. But his immune system was just too weak from all the medication. And his lungs were too weak from all the machines. He couldn’t survive. I had a hard childhood growing up. This place makes you tough. Nigerians and cockroaches will be the last living things on this planet. I can remember being nine years old, and sitting down with my brothers to make a plan when we ran out of food. Our only idea was to drink a lot of water. So I’ve always had to be strong. When my brother died, I couldn’t mourn. I was the oldest in the family. I had to hold it together and make arrangements. But not this time. After Bibi, I decided that I don’t ever have to be strong again. That was my child. I can’t button this one up. Either I allow myself to be weak, or I’m never going to get through it.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“I had a lonely childhood. I didn’t have many friends. I spent a lot of time writing depressing poetry in my room. But everything changed the first time I saw someone perform a spoken word poem. It was at a fellowship meeting. I never realized that poetry could impact an audience like that. After the meeting, the girl invited me to join her poetry club. There were seven members. They met every Thursday under a guava tree in the school courtyard. It was a place for me to just write, and to read what I’d written. It was a place where I felt accepted and got critical feedback. I got better at writing. I grew more confident. Eventually I performed in front of larger audiences, and my projects got more ambitious. Now I’m working on a book. It’s been my main focus for the last four years. It’s about a little girl who’s misunderstood. She’s an artist. She wants to be recognized and understood. But everyone around her thinks she’s a witch. When I began writing the book, the character was based on myself. But I’m so different than her now. I’m not depressed anymore. I’m closer to my family. I don’t feel so isolated. But I’m not sure she’s gotten there yet. I’m struggling to not impose my growth onto her journey. As a writer you’re supposed to detach yourself from your character. But when you’ve included so many elements of yourself, and you’ve evolved so much—it’s really hard to do.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“I’m a community leader here. I watch over about eighty people. We meet every month, and I try to bring their concerns to the government. They also look to me for guidance on how to vote. Hardly any of them are educated. Most of us have nothing. I’m lucky because I work as a street cleaner, but my salary hasn’t been paid in three months. But if we try to feed ourselves by hawking articles on the side of the road, the government will put us in jail. We need jobs. We need clean water. We need good roads. The politicians promise these things before every election. They visit the neighborhood, and tell us this time it will be different. But after the election they disappear. I’ve been to the minister’s office so many times. Every time his receptionist tells me that he’s in a meeting. I sit there all day. The meeting never ends. But he’ll show up again when the election comes around, carrying eighty packages of noodles, and a polo shirt with his name on it.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“I attribute my success to getting to know God early in life. Where I grew up, it was easy to go wayward. And it was risky to go wayward. Thankfully I studied the Bible enough to know the definition of sin. It taught me right from wrong. If I’d been out there trying to figure it out myself, I’d have taken too many wrong turns. I’d probably have gotten pregnant at a young age. I definitely wouldn’t be an architect right now. Maybe some people can do it without God. But not many people in my neighborhood were reading books about morality and ethics. We weren’t being taught the seven habits of highly effective people. But we did have the word of God. I relied on it. And it carried me through.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“I just drove by a man being beaten by police. He was a bus driver. He’d been pulled from his bus, pinned to the ground, and beaten with sticks in front of his passengers. It’s not uncommon. He probably refused to pay their bribe. I see it two or three times a month. Sometimes it’s fists. Sometimes it’s sticks. Sometimes it’s whips. You can try to take a photo but it’s dangerous. Because then they can turn on you. So you just keep driving. It makes me sick because I work as a driver, and I know that one day it might happen to me. I never drive through yellow lights. It’s too dangerous. Sometimes they’ll even force you into a violation. They’ll purposely direct you the wrong way down a ‘one way’ street. If that happens, you don’t argue. You don’t try to defend yourself. You will lose no matter what. You just start begging.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“It happened in May. I was driving my friend’s Mercedes to school because my car had broken down. And suddenly I got pulled over. I turned on the interior lights. I showed the policemen my ID. I called my friend on the phone and asked him to explain the situation. But they said: ‘Not enough, get out of the car.’ They started calling me a prostitute. I told them I’m an artist. Then they saw my laptop in the backseat, and they tried calling me an Internet scammer. They asked me to open my computer and type in the password. I told them it wasn’t possible. Then they asked for a huge bribe, and I told them it wasn’t possible. That’s when they cocked their guns at me. One of them got in the front seat. He pointed his gun at me and told me to drive to an ATM. I brought him to this exact spot, and he escorted me to the machine. I left the car running. I maxed out one of my cards, and told him that I have go back and get another one. Then I locked the door and started driving away. That’s when he started shooting at me! All of this was captured on surveillance cameras. I sped away. I was taking short cuts and back roads. The whole time I was thinking I’m about to get killed. When I got home, I found four dents in the car from where the bullets hit. Afterwards I contacted the police, and they said they wouldn’t even speak to me unless I deleted the story from social media. I said: ‘I’m not doing that. I’m a law student.’” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“They’re called Yahoo Boys. The name comes from the old days when they used Yahoo email accounts to scam people. I first started seeing them when I went to the University of Lagos. They form little gangs. They travel in convoys where all the cars are the same color. They’re always on their laptops. These days a lot of them are legitimized. They rent office space. They refer to their targets as ‘clients.’ They start charities. They put their fraud money into other businesses. Some of them have Instagram accounts with hundreds of thousands of followers. They post pictures of their cars and clothes. They never mention where they got their money-- but everyone knows. A lot of them buy art from me. Since a lot of their scams are emotional fraud, they’ll even ask me for advice on things that women would say in a relationship. Or they’ll ask me to pick up their phone and pretend to be a secretary. I never participate. Recently I’ve even stopped selling them paintings. It’s cost me a lot. But I can’t take their money without feeling complicit.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“When I was the age of this boy, my father had a stroke. My family used all our savings to take care of him. And after we’d spent everything, my father gave up the ghost. We were left in a desperate situation. There was no money left. There were six of us living in a single room. I was only in 5th grade, but I had to go to work. I carried oranges on my head and sold them in the street. Then one day I met the owner of a print shop. He was a friend of my brother. He fed me every afternoon, and he began to teach me his profession. He told me: ‘Never view yourself as having nothing.’ And he showed me that I could change my life with skills alone. Now I have my own shop. And anyone who has an interest, I will teach them. I’ve taught fourteen boys already. This boy has stopped going to school. But we can’t allow him to be idle. We must keep him busy because there’s criminality all around us. Every day we see drug dealers walk by. I point to them and I ask: ‘Do you want to be like them? Or do you want to be like me?’” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“My mother won the visa lottery, so when I was young my family relocated to Minnesota. I think I’m the only one of my siblings who always viewed Nigeria as home. I participated in Model UN. I studied international political science. I admired Nelson Mandela. So I always knew I’d go back to Africa one day. After graduation I interned with an NGO in Northern Nigeria. During that trip I witnessed a breached birth in a village. There was no C-Section available, so the baby died. I knew then that not only would I be coming home to Nigeria, but I’d be doing something in healthcare. I’ve been home for six years now. I’ve chosen to work on the country’s blood distribution problem. Every year tens of thousands of people die while waiting for blood. Meanwhile there are blood banks discarding unused inventory. My company LifeBank is trying to close that gap. Most blood banks in Lagos are participating in our program. Every morning we take an inventory. And when blood is urgently needed, we use bikes to deliver. It’s not easy. Imagine New York City without the infrastructure and no subway system. That’s Lagos. Yet LifeBank has delivered over 10,000 bags of blood within 55 minutes. Blood shortage is a global problem. And if we can do it in Lagos, we can do it anywhere. In December we’re expanding to two new cities. But I see us all over the world.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofnyShortly after arriving in Lagos, my guide showed me a story that was being passed around Nigerian social media. There was a woman who’d been stopped in traffic behind a crowded prison truck, and she witnessed a food vendor running alongside, shoving his food between the bars of the window-- into the hands of the prisoners inside. By the time he was finished, he’d given away all his food. The man was himself in desperate circumstances. He was sleeping outdoors. But despite having hardly anything to give, he gave away all his merchandise. Amazingly, my guide Kola was able to locate the man. His name is Ibere Ugochukwu. And this is his story.
-
- “A few years ago I worked as an apprentice in a cosmetics shop. I was supposed to receive a payment at the end of my term. But I was warned by the other employees that the owner would find a reason not to pay me. He’d always invent reasons to fire his boys right before their payment. So I made the decision to quit. But when I told him, he dragged me to the police. He told them lies about me. He told them I’d stolen so much money. And they tortured me. They tied my hands and legs and they hung me from the ceiling. They beat me. I went deaf from all the slaps. For ten days I was given no food. My fellow prisoners would share little bits of their meals when they were finished. But some days I saw nothing. Honestly I was about to die. And I started to pray to God. And on the tenth day, the guards decided that it would cause too much trouble to let me die. They told my employer: ‘After what we did to him, he must be innocent. Because he’d have confessed if he was guilty.” They released me into the world like a madman. And I’ve carried the memory ever since. I promised myself that if I ever found someone in a similar situation, I would help. So when I learned that prisoners pass down this road, I chose to hawk in this location. I waited until I finally saw the truck, and I pushed all my food through the bars. My fellow vendors couldn’t believe it. They asked me who would pay me for the food. I told them: ‘I didn’t do it for any man. I did it because of what God did for me.’” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“I’m studying human development. A few years ago I came across an article that said there were no successful black nations in the world. It really angered me. I thought: ‘Some fellow is trying to run us down.’ But then I discovered the author of the article was Nigerian. And the more I read, the more I realized it was true. And I started to think that maybe we should be mad at ourselves. I always hear my friends complaining about the politicians in this country. I tell them: ‘Imagine that lightning strikes and suddenly you’re the president. Would you know enough honest people to form a government?’ And they freeze. Because our culture doesn’t ascribe a premium to honesty. People will laugh at you for being honest and broke. Nigeria has the highest concentration of black people in the world. So this is where it should happen. But development doesn’t begin with things, it begins with people. I’m not saying that self-criticism is the answer. But it’s the beginning of the answer. Maybe we should be a little less proud and a little more discontent. Maybe we should stop blaming our immorality on poverty. I grew up in the slums and I don’t want to hear it. Don’t blame it on colonialism, nepotism, racism, or any of the ‘isms.’ And don’t blame it on the slave trade. Because slavery didn’t begin with white people. White people purchased slaves from our shores—that’s true. But black people did the selling. And we were paid for what we sold.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“In my church you’re either Christian or possessed by demons. We have services four times per week. Luckily zoning out looks a lot like praying. I’m not saying that I don’t believe any of it. I just have a lot of questions that nobody will answer. Whenever I ask a hard question, they just show me a bible quote that says I shouldn’t ask questions. It doesn’t make sense to me. I think I’m becoming a Nihilist. Honestly, I don’t see any reason why people should be born. You exist, then you strive to attain something to make sense of your existence, and then you don’t exist anymore. Can’t we cut out some of those steps? It’s just too much work. I didn’t sign up for this. And when you finally die-- instead of everything stopping, you have to become conscious again? Heaven doesn’t sound that great. Supposedly there’s a lot of singing and trumpets. That sounds exhausting. I’d rather be sleeping.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“You can’t just use Beyoncé to sell products in Nigeria. Well, maybe Beyoncé is a bad example. Beyoncé can sell anywhere. But most of the time you need to adapt your advertising to local tastes. So I help international companies create marketing campaigns for Nigeria. A few years ago I started my own company. I’d gotten tired of working for someone else. I was doing all the work on some projects, and I’d only walk away with peanuts. So I took the leap. My goal was to win a single bid that first year. I just needed one big name to risk a little money on me. Because a little money to them was a lot of money to me. I knew I had the technical experience. I had the ‘know how.’ I just didn’t have an office, or a staff, or a big name. But that became my pitch. I argued that bigger agencies take their clients for granted. I told companies: ‘I’m not relaxed like that. I’m hungry. I’m going to give you more juice.’ My first client ended up being Coca Cola. Maybe I didn’t have things quite as figured out as I allowed them to believe. But hey, that’s advertising. And I delivered.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“I used to walk 12 kilometers to school. And every day along the side of the road, there’d be an old woman who was so sick that she couldn’t move. The sun would beat her. The rain would beat her. And nobody would help. I was only seven years old. I couldn’t stand it. But my parents wouldn’t agree to bring a total stranger into our house. How are we OK with people dying like chickens on the side of the road? Millions of people in this country haven’t even taken a single meal today. I can’t stand it. I’m thirty now and I’m struggling. But I’m still trying to help even though I don’t have money. I taught myself to treat diabetes with herbs. I’ve treated ten people so far who can’t afford the hospital. But I want to do more. I’ve given myself a timeframe. I’ve been working at this conservation center for three years now, and I’ve learned a lot. In a few years I’m going to open my own center. I can use the profits to build houses for people who have no place to stay. Each person can stay for a year. Maybe if they can just rest their head for a month, they’ll find a way to feed themselves. And if they eat for a week, they’ll start to reason like a human being. At the very least they’ll see that it’s possible to be loved by someone. And maybe they’ll realize that God loves them too.” (Lagos, Nigeria)humansofny“I was a baby when I got married. I was only thirteen. I didn’t have an adolescence. One day I’m a child going to school, and the next day I’m a mother—responsible for a home. I cried too much. I didn’t know the person I married. He turned out to be a cold man. He had zero communication or understanding. I suffered for so long, but I endured it all so that I could raise my children well. But every human has a ceiling, and once you hit it-- it’s over. For three years I planned my escape. I waited until my children were older. Then one morning I left the keys on the table, dropped my kids off at school, and headed straight for the courts. I finally have freedom. I’m laid back. I’m relaxed. I can express my opinion. I do whatever I want. I just finished a wonderful vacation in Egypt with my daughter. Nobody causes me trouble anymore. These are the best years of my life.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“When I was a boy I’d skip school to sell roses on the street. My parents gave up trying to educate me. They said: ‘He’s lost his mind over the roses.’ I wanted to be around flowers all the time. I sold so many that I opened my own kiosk across from a famous country club. But I could never sell on Fridays. The police would close our entire street so the governor could visit the club. But once I ignored their instructions. It was the day before Mother’s Day. My biggest day of the year. So I took a chance and remained open. When the police found out, they confiscated all my flowers. They even took my license. It was a fatal blow. All my money was in those flowers. I had piles of them. So I had to start from zero. I’m a street vendor again. For awhile I was ashamed, but I’m fine with it now. It’s better than working for someone. I buy the roses I want, and sell them to whoever I want. Maybe I’ll have a shop again. But as long as I’m around my roses, I’ll always feel peaceful.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“My mom has nobody to care for her but me. The last stroke affected her brain so badly. She’s like the living dead. All she can do now is breathe. Last month I found a small wound on her toe. I thought it was something small. It looked so small. So I just put a bandage on it. But it was the beginning of gangrene. I should have known. It spread and the doctors had to amputate her leg. It’s all my fault, but I was under so much pressure. I’m a single mom. I work as a housekeeper. What do I focus on? What do I pay for? My kids’ education? Food? My mom’s care? It’s just too much. It’s all on me. I called my sister last week and screamed at her. I screamed at her for never calling. I screamed at her for not helping. I told her that I wished she would die. And my wish came true. Four days ago she passed away. When I saw her at the morgue, she had no hair, no eyebrows, nothing. She had been hiding cancer from us. I feel so guilty. My wish came true. But I didn’t know because she never called! I haven’t eaten since yesterday. Only a cup of milk. I can’t keep doing this. It’s too much pressure. I’m not doing well. I’m not OK.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“I read a lot on the subject. I studied the texts. And I decided it was permissible to take it off—so that’s what I did. My mom was terrified of what people would think. She asked me to delete all our mutual friends on Facebook. She said if I didn’t wear the hijab, then I couldn’t live at home. So I packed four big bags and went to live with a friend. It was the first time I’d ever slept out of my house. Over the next few weeks, I sent my parents messages every single day. I always told them where I was, what I was doing, and who I was with. I wanted to show that I forgave them, and that I was still their girl, and that one day things would be normal again. They didn’t respond for three months. Until one holiday my uncle called and invited me home for dinner. My parents started crying as soon as I walked in the door. They’d prepared a huge meal. They said that they didn’t mean it, and that they love me a lot, and that they’re proud of me. Things are very good now. We get along even better than when I obeyed. They see I’m doing great things with my freedom. I have a great job and I travel. They’re very proud. I’ve learned to do what you want in life. Because if you do, the world will change to match you.” (Alexandria, Egypt)humansofny“The entrepreneurial community in Egypt is a bit like a baby. It’s still learning to speak, and to read, and to understand. It exists, but only a small number of people have access. You must have connections. Because without them, it’s impossible to grow a business. There are too many layers of bureaucracy. Every decision requires a permit, and every permit requires a signature. A business can be stalled for months waiting on a single approval. Unless you have connections—then everything can be fixed with a single phone call. This dynamic must change. The system needs to work for everybody. The country will never be competitive unless entrepreneurs are able to move fast. But I don’t think the answer is government. The answer is entrepreneurship itself. Our start-ups must begin making money. Because money means control. And when entrepreneurs are in control, things will start working.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“My husband died a long time ago. He was in a car accident. My daughter was only four years old at the time, and I was pregnant with my son. But I overcame it all. Life is difficult but God is generous. I found a job working at this building. I’m an old lady now, but if anything is needed from the store, or anything needs to be cleaned, I can still do it. I’ve been here for 50 years, in a little apartment on the roof. I raised my children up there. All of the people in the building love me. They’re like my family. They tell me: ‘Anything you need for your house, just let us know.’ Whenever I’m sick, they always call me. They say: ‘Where were you yesterday?’ And it’s not just the people in this building. The whole neighborhood loves me. I mean, they’re practically my own. I raised every one of them.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“I was married when I was seventeen. My whole life was my family. I barely left the house because my husband brought me everything I needed. I was far too innocent. I had no idea about anything, but the world has a way of teaching you. Fifteen years ago my husband died and I had to take the lead of the family. He owned an upholstery shop. The workers tried to convince me to let them handle the business, but they were hiding the profits from me. I had to take over. There was no other choice. My kids were still in school and that money belonged to them. So I began going to the shop every day. At first the workers tried to box me out. They knew I didn’t understand the business so they wouldn’t explain anything. They hid the numbers from me. And when a client entered the store, they wouldn’t even introduce me as the owner. But I sat there and watched every move they made. I memorized everything. And after forty days, there were some new rules at the shop. The workers were not allowed to speak to the client directly.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“I’ve had horrible luck finding a husband. Most marriages in this country are traditional, and I have a middleman who arranges interviews with potential suitors. He probably thinks I’m a snob. Because I either turn the men down or scare them off. But you should hear the questions they ask me. Nothing about personality. Nothing about character. Everything is about money: ‘What is your salary?’, ‘Do you have a car?, ‘Is this your only apartment?’ I used to answer these questions, but I’m much harsher now. I’ll dismiss them right away. I’ve had men ask me to stop working. I had a professor ask me to stop studying because I have more degrees than him. Another man ended the interview when he learned that my ‘doctorate’ did not mean I was a medical doctor. It’s ridiculous. Some friends and family want me to settle for the sake of having children. But I have a viewpoint, and I’m not going to sacrifice that viewpoint just because I’m getting older. I believe in marriage. And I’d like children. But if it means I have to accept anything, maybe it’s best to not get married at all. (Alexandria, Egypt)humansofny“This is my brother. We’re helping people into their parking spots. School starts in a few days and we’re trying to raise money for our school fees. Also I want to get a bicycle because all my friends have bicycles. They use their bicycles to make me angry because I don’t have one. But wait until I get my bicycle. They’ll be so angry. We’ve been saving our money for three months. But sometimes we buy Pepsi. And also peanuts. And yesterday a street vendor came by with jewelry, and my brother bought me this necklace. And he also bought me a watch but it broke. And a ring but I lost it. He really loves me so much.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“He always wanted a daughter. He tells me that all the time. My friends think I’m so lucky because a lot of their dads aren’t affectionate. Some have even been forced to stop studying and get married. But my father wants me to be successful. He wants me to live abroad. More than anything, he’s a friend. There was a time in high school when I was extremely depressed. Mostly just teenage things. I felt ugly. I didn’t have confidence. But it got so bad that I started having scary thoughts. And I didn’t want to tell anyone-- especially my parents. I was afraid I’d get locked away in the house. But one night we were sitting in my bedroom, and I finally let him know. His reaction wasn’t what I expected. He didn’t panic or scream. He was calm. He just kept holding me and saying: ‘We’ll get through this together.’” (Alexandria, Egypt)humansofny"Mom said: 'You wear this, and you wear that!” (Alexandria, Egypt)humansofny“I’d always dreamed of getting a college degree, but I got married right after high school. We started having children right away, so it wasn’t easy to convince my husband to let me study. The one time I tried to mention it, he immediately said ‘no.’ But a few years later we were in the passport office and I saw an advertisement for a university. I pulled on his sleeve, pointed at the sign, and said: ‘Lets take a look. It’s only a look.’ That very same day I enrolled in classes. Each night I’d wait until 2 AM, after everyone’s demands had been answered, and the whole house was asleep. Then I’d begin my studying. I’d work until morning, wake the children up, and prepare them for school. Only then could I rest. It was exhausting but I was so happy. It felt like I’d gone back in time and my kids were my siblings. During my third year I was pregnant again, and I was terrified that I’d go into labor during my final exams. But I got my diploma. It was the happiest day of my life. My husband was thrilled for me. Everything is different now. I understand the world. I used to be afraid to leave the house. But now I feel powerful. And it shows.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“My parents aren’t giving me the freedom to be responsible. Mama’s fine. But Papa is an Egyptian father. He wants me to always be in a safe, cozy home. Recently I wanted to go on an educational trip to Sri Lanka. I begged him. I said, ‘Please, I’ll be living with a family. I’ll call you ten times a day.’ But he wouldn’t listen. I locked myself in my room and cried. I wanted that experience. I wanted to meet beautiful people, and eat beautiful food, and take beautiful photos. I know my dad very well. He just doesn’t trust people. He thinks that I’m naïve. He thinks that everyone who helps you wants something in return. But that’s not why I help people. I love people. I love languages. I can even speak a little Hindi. I want to see every village and every city. I even want to work for NASA one day. I love physics and astronomy. But Papa thinks astronomy is a bad idea. He doesn’t get it. It’s not that he doesn’t understand the stars. He just doesn’t understand me.” (Alexandria, Egypt)humansofny“I’m from Basra. In the seventies we were the economic capital of Iraq. It was beautiful once. The only city with two rivers. We had one million people but ten million palm trees. In those days everyone was optimistic. Our oil reserves were better than the Saudis. We assumed the oil would be invested, and that our lives would keep getting better. But our leaders failed us. It was war after war. Without all the fighting, things could have really been great. But the palm trees are gone now. There’s no potable water. We have a shortage of electricity. Healthcare is very poor, and cancer is everywhere because the Americans used radioactive bombs. Our whole land is contaminated. The food that comes from the soil is poison. But please visit, you’ll be welcome. The people are friendly. You’ll be met with hospitality. We understand that governments are the warmongers. You’re victims just like us.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“I have two young boys. And every time we go somewhere, I’m not even thinking about my fun. I only think about their fun. I’ve been to the zoo a million times because the small one loves the monkeys. Last week we went to see Hotel Transylvania III. I’ve already seen two of those things. This time the monsters took a vacation. To be honest, I don’t even think there was a story. The monsters just kept interacting with people on the boat. I wasn’t really paying attention, but the boys loved it. I enjoyed their reactions more than the movie. I watched their faces the entire time. And whenever they laughed, I laughed.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“My mom is in prison. I see her every fifteen days. My siblings take me to visit her, but then they leave me when it’s over. My grandmother doesn’t want me. My uncle beats me up. I have nowhere to live. The only person I have in my life is my mom. Every time I visit, she asks me if I’m staying with relatives, and I tell her: ‘Mom, nobody wants me. I have no one.’ I sleep on the street. I can’t go to school. I just hang out with the older kids. Sometimes we wash cars together for money. Last week I was washing a man’s car and he bought me clothes and food. He told me I could sleep at his house. So maybe I’ll start going there.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“Papa loves Ibrahim. He’s my beloved. He’s my whole world. I have four other sons, but I love him a little more because he needs it a little more. The doctors recommended an abortion but I wouldn’t hear it. He was only three pounds when he was born. He needed half a liter of milk per day. I’d skip my own breakfast just to buy it for him. I took him to nurseries when he was very young because I wanted him to be comfortable with other children. I found a charity that offered speech classes, and I took him five days a week. Anything that I have, I will give him. I only worry what will happen when I’m gone. I’m getting old. I had a major heart episode two weeks ago. I collapsed in the street and all I could think about was him. My wife can't support him alone, and I’m afraid other people won’t be as nice to him. If someone makes him angry, he’s very difficult to control. But I have patience. I’ll hold him. I’ll pat him on the shoulder. I’ll do whatever he needs. I just hope he'll always have someone to do the same.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“People scream from their balconies, ‘Don’t play here!’ But where else are we supposed to play? And they tell us: ‘Don’t play so loud!’ But how do you play not loud?” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“My father was very strict with us. His workshop was across the street from our apartment building, and he’d scream if he saw us peeking out the window. It was like a prison. We’d just stay at home, make him tea and food, and watch TV. Back then it was mostly black and white movies staring Egyptian icons. My favorites were the love stories. But it was just a fantasy for me, because my father swatted away all my suitors. During that time I fell in love with my grandmother’s neighbor. He was tall, light-skinned, and wore his hair combed back. I’d pretend to visit her just so I could see him. I’d wear my loveliest dresses, get my hair done, and stand outside his window. He’d always smile at me. I was pretty myself back then. I loved him. And he loved me. He told my friend that he wanted to marry me. But my father married me off to my cousin, and that’s when the tragedy began. I gave birth to one child after another. I’ve had to work full time because my husband is so useless. He’s a total bum. But I still live next door to my first love. He has a university degree. And every time he sees me, he smiles.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“My son was crazy about a woman. He spent a bunch of money on her. He even asked her to marry him. But she didn’t want him and it drove him mad. He stopped going to work. His clothes became ripped and his beard grew long. He looked like someone you’d see in the street. His personality changed too. He grew aggressive. He thought everyone was trying to fight him. It broke my heart. It felt like my son was slipping away. He was only thirty and had given up on the world. Everyone told me he was cursed. I tried everything. I prayed to God. I went to mosques. I went to spiritual advisors. I gave money to psychics, but nothing worked. Then one day I was sitting in this very spot, and a doctor stopped to visit. He asked me what was wrong. I told him everything, and he asked to see my son. I’ll never forget that day. That man is the reason for everything good in my life. He brought my son back to me. My son is taking medicine now. He’s working. He’s shaved. He’s laughing again. I still believe that God is the one who healed him. But thank God for good doctors.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“We keep waiting for her to turn 78. For the last twenty years she’s been telling people that she’s 77. It got a little awkward when some of her kids reached their seventies. We told her, ‘Mom, it’s going to seem like you gave birth when you were five.’ But she didn’t care. She’d rationalize it by saying: ’77 is the age I feel.’ She fell and broke her hip two months ago. But until then she’d always been extremely active. She’d meet her friends for coffee. She was on the board of two charities. She was always alert and kept her sense of humor. After the accident I drove her to the hospital, and I couldn’t convince her that we needed to tell the doctor she was 97. And when she finally agreed, she wasn’t too happy about it.” (Cairo, Egypt)humansofny“It was basic self-defense. He threw a big ass rock at me. Like half a brick. So I beat him, took his bike, and took his sneakers. His jaw got wired. He ended up in some sort of group home. I was seventeen at the time but, yeah, I’m proud of it. Technically I was defending myself, but the judge didn’t see it like that. I was defending my pride. I was defending my ego. They gave me seven years. Now I can’t even get a job. That bitch ruined my life. I don’t know why he had to call the police. He was a rat. He snitched. I’d never call the police if that happened to me. That’s not what you do. If you’ve got a problem, you just find the guy and fuck him up.”humansofny“Once when I was fourteen I was getting on the Q Train in Brooklyn. It was two o’clock in the afternoon. I was going to a friend’s house. I swiped my card quickly because the train was coming. And as I ran to catch it, an undercover police officer just grabbed me. I remember he was wearing a Jake Plummer Michigan football jersey. I told him that I’d paid my fare. I told him he could check my card. But he pushed me against the wall and started searching through my stuff. I’ve probably been searched about half a dozen times in my life. So I don’t have a lot of faith in the system. I know a lot of people in prison are just unlucky. Right now I’m finishing up my Masters’ in accounting and my goal is to own my tax firm. I’d love to employ formerly incarcerated individuals one day. It’s so hard for them to find employment, but I can teach them to do taxes. It’s something anyone can learn. They can provide an excellent service, and their history wouldn’t make a difference.”humansofny“Social media isn’t evil. There are neuroscientists in some of these companies, but for the most part I don’t think it was done maliciously. But advertising is the business model. And if advertising is the business model-- our attention becomes the product. Two variables matter to the bottom line: the amount of users and the amount of time they spend on platform. And what gets measured gets optimized. So our phones have become slot machines. We scroll and scroll and scroll, and eventually we hit something that gives us a dopamine reward. It’s by design. Because slot machines make more money in the US than theme parks, baseball, and movies combined. Both Vegas and Silicon Valley know that our brains can be manipulated if presented with a certain set of choices. Obviously addictiveness isn’t the only feature of these platforms. They’ve empowered so many voices. I’d just love to live in a world where our most influential technology didn’t measure its success by the time it took from us.”humansofny“I thought I could resist the rat race. I thought: ‘I’m a unique guy. I like to mix things up.’ So I fought it for a long time. I stayed up past my bedtime. I listened to music really loud in the morning. I rode my bike to work. I always tried to find new places for lunch. I joined a softball team. I went to concerts on weeknights. But I just got tired. I ended up staying later at the office. And I fell into a rhythm: come home, watch TV, and go to sleep. I’m not sure I can do this for the next forty years. I just miss waking up and not knowing what’s going to happen. It’s never explicitly said to you that you need to live on your own, and have a good life, and meet someone, and have kids, and have those kids be more successful than you are. But you feel the pressure all the time. You feel it every time someone asks how your job is going. Right now everyone in this park is taking a break from the thing they have to get back to. It’s comforting in a way. There’s a sense of solidarity in it. We’re all feeling the same obligation.”humansofny“My grandmother was the first in our family to discover it. One day she joined a meditation in the park. She was taking so many medications at the time, but she threw them all away and never took another trip to the hospital. That was before the crackdown. At one time were one hundred million followers of Falun Gong in China. It’s a peaceful religion. But the following grew too big. Our teacher seemed like a threat to the government. They said crazy things on state media. They called it a cult. They said we’re terrorists and that we kill our parents. They began to arrest us. They even harvested our organs. I know it sounds crazy, but you can Google it. We tried to resist. We practiced inside our home. We secretly handed out fliers to push back against the propaganda. But they caught me on camera. Everywhere there are cameras. They followed me to my home. They shoved me in their car. For eight months I was in detention. The first thing they did was take a sample of my blood. For hours every day they put us in a room and forced us to watch television about how to be a good citizen. If anyone looked away, the whole group was punished. Eventually my family bribed the court with huge money and they let me go. But for three years I had to write a letter every month saying that I am a guilty person. When my probation ended, I left the country.”humansofny“I never thought I’d come back to New York. I have a lot of bad memories here. It can be an ugly place. My ex-husband lives here. On September 11th I was on the street below the second tower. So there are things I’d just prefer not to remember. But recently my mother got sick and I came home to take care of her. I was in a bit of a rut at the time. I’d fallen away from my passions. I was just working to pay the rent. And one evening I was walking by the river and I passed a place called Hudson River Community Sailing. They offered free sailing lessons. I don’t know why I stopped. I was intellectually convinced that sailing was not for me. I was getting older. I was out of shape. But I decided to give it a try. And I got hooked on it. I got kinda obsessed with learning to sail. I remember the first time I was out there alone. It felt amazing. I was in the middle of the Hudson, the wind was blowing, I could see the whole city, and my hand was on the tiller. It seemed like I was doing something impossible. I’m not white. I’m not male. I don’t own a boat. I don’t even have money. But I’m in New York City and I’m fucking sailing.”humansofny“The vibe was in the air. You know it. Kids know. I wasn’t welcome or wanted. My mom felt trapped. She didn’t want her husband and she didn’t want kids. She viewed me as a problem. Everything that went wrong was my fault. There was never a ‘How was your day?’ or ‘I love you.’ I wouldn’t even call it a childhood. I never had a chance to be a kid. So I started having sex very young. I was only twelve but I was looking for it. I met him in the men’s room of a movie theater. He was a drifter. I never felt hurt, or forced, or manipulated. He never lured me with candy. I didn’t even know the word ‘pedophile’ existed. I was just thankful for the closeness. I visited him on the weekends. There wasn’t much conversation. He never asked me about my week. He never asked me about school. What can I say? It was what it was. It wasn’t right or wrong to me. It was a comfort.”humansofny“When I came here I was alone. I was sixteen and didn’t speak any English. I remember on the first day of school, some guy was making fun of my younger brother and I punched him. A few guys saw what was happening and ran down the hall to help. They backed me up. And afterward, they said: ‘We want you to join our group.’ So I started hanging out with them. There were a lot of parties and girls. It wasn’t bad at first. A few times they asked me to punch someone in the mouth. But the farther I got in, the crazier shit got. I started using rocks and bats on people. I just followed orders and never asked questions. Then one day they asked me to attack a guy from our gang. He was one of us. And they wouldn’t even tell me why. I realized that if they’d do it to him, they’d do it to me too. So I left. Whenever I see kids in the street now, I try to tell them: ‘Go back home. Listen to your family. Cause if anything happens— if you end up in the hospital or in jail, nobody from your gang will visit you. And if you get killed, they won’t be the ones crying.”humansofny“After the divorce I threw myself into work. I’m in residency to be a psychiatrist, and I found that I could forget my problems if I focused on my patients. But I’d come home feeling numb. I wouldn’t sleep well. I lost fifty pounds. I kept convincing myself I was fine because I was still being so productive. But when I started having thoughts of suicide, I knew I’d reached my tipping point. I confided to my program director that I was going through a major depressive episode. She supported me 100% and referred me to the psychiatrist I see today. When I’m ready to get my license, there will be a question on the application that says: ‘Have you ever had a mental illness that impaired your ability to treat patients?’ I’m going to answer ‘no.’ Because being a patient has been a revelatory experience. It’s taught me how difficult it can be to verbalize what you’re feeling. And it’s taught me the power of denial, even for someone who studies the symptoms. When I began the medication it was like a veil had been lifted from my eyes. So much of what I know about depression, I learned by getting through it.”humansofny“When it starts to get crowded, I’ll leave. Because I can’t stand the looks. You know how many people were gonna sit on that bench over there, but decided against it, because of what’s sitting right here? I drank myself into homelessness. So I’m not looking for violins or tissues. But I used to be in the mainstream. I was somebody once, and people used to look at me without any barriers or animosity. I can tell you this: when John Lennon sings ‘Imagine,’ it’s complete bullshit. He was living in the Dakota when he wrote that, overlooking Central Park. Imagine no possessions? He should have written a song about all the wonderful things that he had. Imagine nothing to live or die for? No Yoko? No career? No child? No fame? No status? Well here I am. There’s no peace here.”humansofny“My parents are from the same small village in Mexico. My mother was the daughter of a successful farmer. My father was very poor. Supposedly they never spoke to each other. My father says he would sit on a rock and admire her from far away. She lived in a big house. She could barely leave because her father was very strict. So they came to America for two different reasons. My father came for work and my mother came for excitement. They both ended up in New York, working at a small Mexican restaurant in Harlem. My grandmother always laughs at my mother. She says: ‘You ran all the way to America to marry a boy from the village.’”humansofny“We had five kids together, but she’s a Gemini so she’s two faced. She bought me a Greyhound ticket and sent me away. Never told me why. Could have been the not working. Could have been the weed smoking. But the worst part is that she threw me on child support. Now I’ve got a $100,000 lien on my name. It comes off the top of my check. I could work all week and bring home $40. So I’m better off not working. It’s bullshit. The government wasn’t in bed when I was fucking her. Now they want to control me. I don’t believe in their laws. I follow natural law. The Law of the Ancients. I just have to find a way to disconnect from this social security number.”humansofny“The second I started it was off to the races. I was twelve or thirteen. It’s the age you begin to realize that there’s some sort of norm. You notice there’s a fellowship of people who can engage with each other, and these people tend to act or dress a certain way. I yearned for social interactions. I’d spend hours replaying certain situations, trying to figure out what to say or do differently. I hated what I saw in the mirror. And it didn’t help that I was a middle schooler in the closet. I think the downers slowed me down to a train of thought I could handle. They made me less inward focused. I stole the alcohol from my parents. And I’d sell shit from the house for the weed and pills, or coke, or even crack. My parents couldn’t trust me for five minutes. They put a pool alarm on my door. Then they took the door off completely. I told myself they were controlling and delusional, until finally I broke down crying and asked for help. Next month will be three years sober. In the program we have a saying: ‘If you follow the rules, you’ll get a life beyond your wildest dreams.’ It sounds a little ‘culty’ but it’s true. Of course my wildest dreams weren’t the highest hopes. I just wanted the ability to interact with people. And I wanted people who care about me. Now I have both, and it’s a beautiful thing.”humansofny“The first thing I noticed was a tremor. I’m a computer programmer and I kept accidentally hitting the shift key. Then I started to lose my sense of smell. And finally came the depression. My wife made me see a doctor. She said to me: ‘Either you get on an antidepressant, or I’m going to.’ That's when I learned I had Parkinson's. Over the years my tremors got worse. My voice got quieter. I had to quit working. My dopamine levels fell so low that I lost communication between my brain and face. I couldn't express any emotion. My daughter grew up without seeing me smile. I probably seemed distant. A lot of times I felt like I couldn't fit in with the rest of the family. Then a few months ago I had an experimental surgery. They inserted a wire in my head that stimulates the brain with electricity. Now all my emotions are coming back. I’m more talkative. I have more energy. I’ve cried more in the last few months than I have in the past thirty years. And for the first time in her entire life, my daughter can finally see me smile.”humansofny“I got assaulted in the swimming pool this morning. I was in the middle lane, like always. It’s my lane. And this woman swims right at me while I’m making my turn. Physical contact. I didn’t handle that well, because I’m a Libra. I took it to another level. I kicked my pace into second gear. Next thing you know, she’s right on top of me, pushing me out of the lane. I had to get management involved. It ruined my morning. I even cancelled my trip to the beach. But then I went to yoga and calmed down for a hot minute. And now I’ve invented another activity. I went to the Whole Foods’ salad bar and created my own appetizer: Brown Rice Gluten Free Brown Chip Tapenade. So I still got my fun in.”humansofny“I’m a year out from breast cancer. They caught it early but it still required two surgeries and radiation. My body took a long time to heal and I lost all my stamina. Before the diagnosis, I was running half-marathons. I was kickboxing and lifting weights every day. But the treatment really wiped me out. And it was really tough for me because I’ve always been such an active person. Exercise is how I lift my spirit. But it got to the point where I could barely walk twenty minutes on a treadmill. There were days I thought I’d never be my old self again. But I’m starting to get my health back on. I’m at about 75 percent now. I’m lifting heavier weights. I’m starting to feel strong. I even signed up for an obstacle race next Saturday. There are 27 obstacles, and I’m going to do as many of them as I can. I’m getting back to my glory days. Actually I’m going further than that. I’m going to 120%.”humansofnyHey everyone! I’m starting a Patreon for anyone who would like to take part in supporting Humans of New York. I like the idea of having an ongoing, intimate conversation with the people most invested in Humans of New York. I like the idea of our connection not being dependent on the algorithms of Facebook or Instagram. And yes, I’d love to have a stable source of funding to travel, and innovate, and grow. Nothing will change on the blog. All content will continue to be free. I’ll be using the Patreon page as a space to share the process, planning, and thinking behind the work. I'll be updating frequently and a monthly pledge of $1 will unlock all the content. If you can afford to give more support, that is great but not necessary. I want Humans of New York to be a lifelong body of work. And a big part of that is always being able to find the people who care about it most. So if you’ve enjoyed the blog in the past, and would like to contribute to its future, I hope you’ll consider becoming a patron through the link in bio. Thank you. --Brandonhumansofny“I’d always play stickball in the streets, but my mother took me to see my first real baseball game in 1952. It was the Brooklyn Dodgers: Jackie Robinson, Pee Wee Reese, Duke Snider. I’d seen them all on television, but it was a strange feeling actually being there. The ballpark was a bigger than I thought. The crowd was louder than I thought. I was hooked. I’ve been to over one hundred games since then. I’ve been to Cooperstown five different times. I don’t get to the ballpark much anymore, but I listen to every Yankee game on the radio. I like to listen outside. I’ll pick a different spot each time. Sometimes I sit down by the river. Once I went to Coney Island. I pick my bench based on where the wind is blowing. Occasionally people from church will walk by. All my family has gone or moved away. It does get lonely sometimes, mainly when I’m inside. But never when I’m listening to the ballgame.”humansofny“I’ve worked as a doula for over twenty years. I’ve attended over 400 births. My job is primarily to support the mother. And I try to bring a spiritual element into what can seem like a clinical experience. I never speak the language of the clinician. Because if you can change the language, you can change the energy. Birth is a mystery initiation. It’s the transition between spiritual consciousness and earthly consciousness. I tell the mother to ignore the machines. Ignore the beeping and the charts. Technology can seem sexy but it’s really a bullshit representation of what’s going on. Nothing is broken and nothing needs fixing, because birth is not pathology. It’s a beautiful design that’s worked since the beginning of time. So just tune into your baby who is a sentient, conscious being—and do this thing together.”humansofny“I got divorced when my daughter was very young. So she’s kinda been my whole life since she was five. It’s just the two of us. I go to work, I come home, and she’s always there— maybe a little less now because she’s eighteen, but you know what I mean. She’s about to leave for college in Chicago. And it’s a little scary to send her off into the big world. But she’ll be finding her tribe. She’ll be learning about herself. I’m excited for her. And I’m excited for me, too. Because I think we both have a much bigger world ahead of us. I’ve been holding myself back a little bit. I’ve always wanted my daughter to know she’s my first priority, and that’s become a bit of an excuse. An excuse not to travel. An excuse to be overly selective in my relationships. An excuse to not pursue new opportunities. For the longest time, if I said ‘no,’ it meant I was being a good mother. But now if I say ‘no,’ it means I lack courage.”humansofny“It’s basically the newborn stage forever. He has both epilepsy and a very rare genetic disorder. He can’t feed himself. He’s not toilet trained. He can’t speak. He can’t tell us if he’s sad, or grumpy, or hungry. He’s had more doctor appointments than both of us combined in our entire life. We’re actually heading to a neurologist appointment right now. The most difficult thing is finding peace and serenity. Every time he has a seizure, I’m afraid it will be fatal. People with his disorder don’t live very long. But the disorder also makes him very happy. So he’s oblivious and enjoying the world. But I’ve been traumatized. My husband is so supportive but a lot of days I feel completely alone. There have been times when I’ve filmed myself on my phone just to have someone to talk to. But every day I can choose to not be overwhelmed by my anxiety and fear. Instead of curling up to cry, I can choose to meet him with joy where he’s at. I felt loved by God when he was born. I was working as a special education teacher, so I thought that God had given me a perfect fit. We named him Iman Yaqeen, which means ‘faith without doubt.’ That name has become a reminder to me. I say it all day long when I’m trying to get his attention. And it reminds me that one day I’m going to hear him speak. If not here, then in heaven.”humansofny“Too many people are faking the funk. I was at the club the other night. And I’m scrolling through my Instagram and I see a post from a girl I know. And she’s at the same club. And in this photo she’s holding up a bottle, acting crazy, looking like she doesn’t have a care in the world. But the club wasn’t even rocking like that. It was a Thursday. So I look across the room and there she is: sitting down, looking bored, scrolling through her phone, and clearly faking the funk.”humansofny“I’d been putting it off because I didn’t have the money or time. But a program at the VA offered to help with tuition, so I enrolled in Empire State College. I wasn’t there to play. I wasn’t there to party. My only goal was to get an education. And more than the degree, I discovered that I needed the people. I met people at college that I could bounce ideas off. People who could challenge me to go further with my interests. Two of my mentors were Dr. Fullard and Professor Whiteside. Both of them had retired from corrections so they had a passion for helping black males. They’d tell me: I notice you have a strong ability for ‘such and such,’ and I’d love to see you develop it further. So that’s what I did. Even though I majored in business, I found myself learning all about history and economics. Right now I’m reading a book about the Haitian Revolution. It has nothing to do with my major, but it’s important to me. It’s part of my personal curriculum. And that’s the most important thing that I got from college. I got a degree. But more importantly I developed a personal curriculum that I’ll be using for the rest of my life.”humansofny“I’ve lived here my whole life. I’m ready to leave. I just graduated college and I’d love to experience a new city. But I’m stuck. My dad is trying to become a citizen, and I need to stay in the city because I’m the one petitioning on his behalf. We’ve been waiting for five years already. We’ve spent so much money. But it’s the least I can do for him. I’ve seen where he lived in Mexico: tiny houses, dirt floors, no shoes. He was the youngest of twelve. His family couldn’t afford to educate him. So he came here when he was seventeen and worked as a migrant worker in California. He slept in train cars and ate food out of the trash. Even now he works fourteen hours a day. He comes home, we talk a bit, and he goes to sleep. It’s been that way my entire life. He’s turning fifty soon and he’d love to start his own business. So I hope he gets his citizenship. It’s a little dangerous because he’s on the radar now. They have his fingerprints. But he’s got a son that fought in Afghanistan. And now he’s got a daughter that graduated from NYU, so I think he deserves to stay.”humansofny“We met dancing. We only see each other when we’re dancing. And I danced with him for ten years before I even knew his name.”humansofny“When I was younger I fell in love with a black man, which my mother didn’t like. She tried to tell me that it would cause my grandmother to die of a heart attack. But we married anyway. And after having two children we got divorced. My mother especially didn’t like that. She was appalled. She didn’t believe in divorce. She told me that I couldn’t possibly love my children. Our relationship never got better. Over the years we’d have a weekly phone call. We’d reenact the same conversations again and again. I wanted her to acknowledge that I’d lived an interesting life. It made me angry that she saw me as deficient. I wanted her to see that my life had meaning, even if I was on my own. She’s 89 now. Two years ago she was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s, which has made her even blunter with her opinions. She now openly expresses her preference for my brother. It’s becoming clear that she won't change her mind about me. And it carries a sting. Because I guess we never stop hoping to be understood."humansofny“I’m much younger than I thought I would be. When I was in college, I thought 43 seemed so old. It just seemed everything would be set by then and my life would be over. I thought I’d only be doing things that I had to do. Everything is a choice when you’re young. But then you graduate from school and make your big decisions: your career, your marriage, your kids. And it seems that with each big decision, you have less opportunity for choice. But I still have a lot of choices. It’s just not all about me anymore. I enjoy choosing ways for my kids to experience new things. I’m thinking about bringing them to the Ben and Jerry’s factory in Vermont next weekend. I think they’ll get a kick out of it. I can still remember my daughter’s face the first time she saw Yankee Stadium. I’d already been dozens of times, but it almost felt like the first time for me too. And I love taking my son to his soccer games. He’s only six so he has no clue how to play. But he’s decided that his job is to run back and forth in front of the goal. He basically invented defense and I got to watch it happen. These things are a lot of fun for me. When I was young, I imagined they’d feel like obligations. But they’re not. They’re choices.”humansofny“It’s so hard to ask for help. Because you’re supposed to be ‘Mommy.’ And you never want to say: ‘I need help being Mommy.’ I carried this person for nine months. I knew she was coming. I felt like I should be able to handle it and I didn’t want to ask other people to stop their lives. Especially if they had no part in making this baby. But eventually I had to give in. I’m just one person and being ‘Mama’ 24/7 can make you crazy. I found myself getting frustrated that other people were going on with their lives. I’d let things fester. And it was unhealthy for my relationships. I’d get heated with my mother and boyfriend. Instead of beginning with ‘Can you help?’ I’d lose my temper, and jump straight to: ‘Why aren’t you helping?’”humansofny"Recently I went home to Dublin for six months to spend time with my father. He’s in the late stages of Alzheimer’s. While I was there, I noticed that the bank where I worked was moving along fine without me. It made me realize that my contribution was dispensable. So when the sabbatical ended, I just couldn’t go back. My friend happened to approach me around that time with an opportunity to start a company. We’re developing an app to help manage the construction process. It feels good to be learning so much again. Everything was so specialized at the bank. There was an expert for everything. Everyone just stuck to the things they were good at and recognized for. But there’s no bureaucracy in our start-up. It’s just the two of us. There’s only what needs to be done. I can last about a year before things get financially stressful. I’m hoping that the company will be viable by then. Because even if it doesn't make a lot of money, as long as it survives, I’ll have been a part of creating something.”humansofny“I wasn’t planning on dressing up as a clown. I’d been drinking all night in Poughkeepsie and I somehow ended up at the train station, so I decided to take the 4 AM train into the city. I had $200 in my pocket from some gutter cleaning work. I immediately spent the first $60 on brunch and Bloody Marys. Then I walked by Party City and I had the idea to get a clown wig. But then I noticed the suspenders, and the top, and the bow tie, and some balloons. I bought a red nose too but I’m not sure what happened to it. I left the store with about $100, which was enough to get some shoes and a half pint of Seagram’s. I ended the day with $10 but that got lost when I passed out in Times Square. Now I'm trying to figure out how to get home. I need to stop drinking.”humansofny“I’ve known her since I was seven. I had a crush on her even back then. But she lived back in the Dominican Republic, so I’d only get to see her during the summer. We just got tired of being apart. So I asked her to marry me. My parents were against it. I was twenty-one. I was going to City College. I was still living at home and they thought I wasn’t ready. And there was definitely some truth to that. I had to drop out of school once she moved in with us. I couldn’t handle everything. At first I was depressed but I started to progress quickly at work. I got raise after raise. We moved out of my parents’ house and got a small apartment in the Bronx. Now I’m studying to get my electrical license. I've seen a lot of the guys I work with start their own companies. You’ve just got to want it. You’ve got to want to move up, and you can find a way. The marriage has been great and it’s been tough. We have a two-year-old daughter now. It’s a lot of work. But it’s also awesome to go home everyday and find two people who love me.”humansofny“I’m trying to finish writing a book. I’m on my fourth draft and have 70,000 words so far. It’s an adventure tale set in Jamaica. My main character is a twelve-year old girl named Kristi. She’s the same age that I was when I left the island. I really want to write something that resonates back home. I’ve been researching the history and folklore of the country. I’m trying to get the dialect just right. I want Jamaicans to recognize themselves and be proud. I've been working on it for four years now. I’ve given up on so many other things. I gave up on being a doctor. I’ve given up writing other stories. I lost sixty pounds last year, but before that I’d given up on so many diets. So I’m determined to finish this. I try not to think about other goals for the book. Because the more I need from it, the more I freeze up. I have a lot of debt. I have a lot of relatives in Jamaica that need money. But if I start writing to feel hopeful about my financial situation, the words won’t come. So my goal is just to finish my fourth draft. And if that happens, my next goal is to get a rejection letter that tells me something I can improve.”humansofny“A few years ago I get a call from my wife, and she tells me that her aunt is going through a tough time and needs a place to stay. So I agreed to let the aunt stay with us for a few months. ‘I’m doing a good deed,’ I thought. But things got weird after she moved in. She was a really quiet lady. And she always seemed to be watching me. I’d be walking around downstairs, and I’d notice the aunt peering down on me from the upper level. Like I was some sort of intruder. But I think to myself: ‘Just ignore it. She’s going through a rough time.’ Then one night I wake up at 2:30 AM and the aunt is standing over my bed, saying some sort of prayer over me. And I sleep completely naked. And I have no idea how long this woman has been there. And I wake up my wife, who starts dragging the aunt out of the room, and the whole time the woman is screaming at me: ‘I know who you are! You aren’t fooling anyone!’ It was terrifying. My wife and I separated four months later. Things hadn’t been going great, but that aunt definitely flushed the toilet.”humansofny“We’re going to a new school for kindergarten. They make you wear green clothes and there are fishy games with fish that eat numbers. We’re going to be in different classes. We’re not sure what that’s going to be like, but we’re only a little scared. Because we can see each other at lunch and recess.”humansofny“I had to take a bike ride to get away from my teenage daughter. She missed the deadline for her college application, but she lied and told me that she’d sent it in on time. I believed her. I decided to give her space and let her do it on her own. Then yesterday I found a letter saying that her application came too late. So I cooked her dinner. I let her have a nice meal. Then I served her the letter for dessert. We started arguing. She told me that she wants to take a semester off. She thinks I’m bossing her around and she wants to do things her own way. But I worked two jobs for this girl. I raised her on my own. I’ve given her everything. She was born at 11:58 PM, two minutes before my birthday. She looks just like me. She acts just like me. And she’s stubborn like me. Whenever we butt heads I think, ‘Oh my God. I’m Angie. I’m fighting with my eighteen-year-old self.’ Except I was already pregnant with her older brother by then. And I just want things to be easier for her.”humansofny“I haven’t worked with an American for three years. I’m a union drywall finisher, and my job has completely been taken over by Central and South Americans. All of them have union cards now. Can you imagine being the only one on your crew who doesn’t speak Spanish? There’s nobody to talk to. You have no clue what people are saying. It’s isolating. And all of them stick together too. My last three foremen were from El Salvador, Paraguay, and Peru. And whenever work dries up, I’m the first one trimmed from the crew. Always. No matter how hard I work. I used to get angry about it. It felt like I’d been sold out by the mayor and the union bosses. I even started having racist thoughts. But that’s not me, man. I know they aren’t bad people. They’re just sticking together like any of us would. How can you blame them? My parents were immigrants. I grew up in New York. I’ve got friends from all over the world. So I’m not going to start thinking like that. I’m not going there. That’s not who I am.”humansofny“I’ve been crocheting since I was 15. I started out with patterns from the magazines but there was one point where I just said ‘screw this’ and started designing everything myself. I’ve got twelve giant tubs of yarn at home. Everything I make is one of a kind, even if it’s a shawl. My shawl is going to have a slightly different color or slightly different stitch than any other shawl. I’ve crocheted hundreds of Christmas presents. I crocheted the sweater I’m wearing. I even helped crochet a sweater for a huge water tower. My section alone took three weeks. The theme of the Crochet Guild convention last year was ‘under the sea,’ so I knitted 110 sea horse pins. And right now I’m working on a mermaid tail for the daughter of the niece of my brother-in-law.”humansofny“I started my career as a teller at a community bank in Florida. I was in my early thirties. At the time I had a young child and I just needed a way to pay my rent and car payment. But I kept moving up. I wouldn’t say I’m overly ambitious. It didn’t come from a place of ‘I need more.’ I just have a lot of energy. And I’d always ask the next question or apply for the next job. So I worked my way up to CEO. It was demanding but I enjoyed the position. I was handling it quite well until a few years ago when my husband passed away. Then my mother. And then my best friend. All of this happened in a single year. I’d never even lived alone before. Suddenly I felt unanchored. I reached this place of ‘what do I do now?’ I couldn’t go back to making more money. So I decided to make a change. I went back to college to get a Master of Public Administration. And right now I’m actually on the lunch hour for my final class. I’ve already got a job waiting on me back home. I’m the new Director of Broward County's Business Council on Homelessness. We’re working toward getting homeless people into permanent housing. And I’m really excited. I want to do a great job. I’m in a place where I can change some lives. It feels like I've moved from success to significance.”humansofny“I love walking around the city. I catch the Metro North train at 11:40 every morning. I go to the same gym that I’ve been going to for forty years. Then I just start walking. If you take big strides it really stretches you out. And there are millions of other people walking around. You never feel alone. People smile at you. On weekends I’ll bring my granddaughters with me and we’ll tour different neighborhoods. We’ve seen ten or twelve so far. Sometimes I get to borrow them for the whole afternoon. But they’re at sleep away camp right now so I’m missing them a lot. And that’s about it. I do a little shopping at the thrift store. I stop and read the paper. I eat at outdoor restaurants. It’s simple but I found what makes me happy and I’m doing it. And when I’m heading home at night, sometimes I think: ‘I just had the best day of my life.’”humansofnyExcited to announce that the HONY video series was nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding New Approaches! Thanks to everyone who watched and for the wonderful team who helped put it together. For anyone who hasn’t seen it, all thirteen episodes are available on Facebook Watch. (Link in bio)humansofny"I’m a single father raising a teenager. We’re meeting here in a few minutes to go on a run. I’m trying to teach him discipline and focus. He’s had some problems paying attention in school, but I don’t want to put him on medication. His mother and I divorced when he was four. She’s a good person. She’s very appreciative of what I’ve done. She just wasn’t ready to be a parent. I was in a much better place. So she didn’t fight me on custody. But it scares me to think if she had. The courts are set up against men. They almost always determine that women should raise kids and men should pay child support. I don’t understand it. There’s a big push to see women as equal workers. Why can't men be equal parents?"humansofny“I took him to see Brokeback Mountain when it came out. I thought I was challenging him with the choice. But at the end of the film, he turned to me and said: ‘That’s me.’ We’d been married for thirty years. Our kids were still young. I didn’t know what to do. Do I leave? Do I stay? We were ex-pats in another country at the time, so we were all alone. I had nobody to talk to. We went to a therapist to see if it was possible to stay together, and she told us: ‘I’ve seen it work. But only if one person is very discrete and the other is very tolerant.’ So I agreed to try. It’s been ten years. It’s been exhausting in a lot of ways. I asked too many questions at first. I made myself miserable. Now I give him a lot of space. And I get a lot of space in return. I’ve been traveling alone for about two months now. I know what’s going on back home but I don’t ask about it. My friends ask me why I don’t move on with my life. I don’t know the answer. Maybe I’m just too afraid to be alone at this age. But I still feel like he’s my soul mate. We have the same view of the world. We both love children. We love traveling and good food. He really is a good man. He’s just gay. And we’ve had such a good life together, I’m just not ready to stop sharing it.”humansofny“So one day I’m sitting here talking to this lady, and I’m eating a sandwich. And the lady says to me: ‘There’s a sparrow sitting on your sandwich.’ And I think, ‘Wow. That’s pretty thrilling.’ So I began to feed it. And that sparrow started spreading the word, and I developed a bit of a reputation in the sparrow community. And suddenly I become the sparrow guy. There’s like sixty of them waiting for me every morning. All these benches are covered in shit.”humansofny“My superpower is fire. It’s inside my hands but I only use it on bullies. My dad is a superhero too. His power is minding his own business.”humansofny“My wife and I were in our late thirties when we met. Kids just weren’t in the cards for us. I always thought I would have been a good dad, but time just went by and it never happened. So we raised a little family of dachshunds instead. We got Ozzie and Eva shortly after getting together. They both lived for thirteen years. Having two extra lives in the house was a wonderful thing. They needed to be cared for. They gave and received love. I imagine that it’s a little like having a kid. When Oscar passed away, I was so distraught that I passed out on the floor of the vet. Eva lived for another year, and after she died, we decided to wait before adopting again. We lasted about a year. Pepper came from a high kill shelter in Los Angeles. She was terrified for the first few weeks and wouldn’t come near us. But she trusts us now. She is definitely a Daddy’s girl.”humansofny“My son is on the computer all the time. He’ll start as soon as he gets home from school and goes until bedtime. It’s some sort of adventure game involving teamwork. He wears a headset and plays with his friends. His goal was to go outside more this summer but that hasn’t happened. Maybe I enabled him. I held off on getting him a phone and computer, but at some point every other kid has got one. And you don’t want him to fall behind with technology. He’s a good kid. His grades are pretty good. His teachers love him. He’s very polite. He helps his mother. I just wish he’d apply his interest in games to other things. He was in science club, but he quit that. He took some Tae Kwon Do lessons, but he quit that. I thought maybe coding classes would interest him because he loves being on the computer, but that didn’t work either. I also played video games as a kid. But we’d just beat a few levels of Mario, and then we’d get a call to come outside. But that doesn’t happen anymore. Because the person who’d normally call you is on the other end of the headset.”humansofny“I’ve been on antidepressants since August of last year. I was living alone in the city at the time and feeling a lot of anxiety. So I talked to a therapist, and she recommended antidepressants. At first I was nervous about taking them. There’s a bit of a stigma in the African American community. If you take any sort of medication, it’s like: ‘Oh, you crazy now.’ So the first thing I did was look on the Internet. I’m not even sure what I searched. But somehow I ended up finding Matt’s videos on YouTube. He was sort of documenting his own experience with antidepressants. He was black. He was male. He was queer. And he was doing fine. It just made me feel a lot less alone. I sent him a short message thanking him for his videos, and he started checking in on me about once a week. He’s been a great friend. We actually just met in person for the first time on Saturday.”humansofny“My father called me ‘stupid’ a lot. Even when I’d bring home good grades, he’d say things like: ‘You’re smart, but you don’t know anything.’ I just wasn’t a big reader like him. He always had a book in his hand. Math was my thing. During lunch I’d go to the junior high library and sit on the floor with puzzle books. Now I’m a teacher, and I’ve taught every math class in the high school curriculum. A few years ago I was teaching my precalculus class, and I stumbled upon a set of numbers that generated ellipses with identical positioning in both the rectangular and polar coordinate systems. So I turned them into variables, wrote a two-page proof, and had my work published in a journal called The Mathematics Teacher. Take that, Dad.”humansofny“My mom left the Philippines when I was five years old. My sisters and I were very young at the time. We basically raised ourselves because my dad doesn’t talk much. It must have been hard on my mother. She wasn’t able to come back because of her visa status, and we didn’t have the money to visit. We talked on the phone about once a month. She’d send us letters, and clothes, and toys. It took ten years of working and saving for her to finally bring us over. I think the reunion was much different than she imagined. She probably expected us to be grateful, but all of us were teenagers by then. We weren’t used to being told what to do. So we were pretty awful to her. And my father divorced her soon after we arrived in America. But her sacrifice paid off. We all graduated college and have good jobs. But it wasn’t until I became an adult that I realized how lonely those ten years must have been.”humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“My dad came here when he was my age, but I don’t feel especially connected to Vietnam. I haven’t even really asked him about his history. I’m a proud person. But for me it’s about what I’m doing right now. I didn’t experience my father’s history. So I’d rather not identify as the son of a refugee. I’m an American kid going to an American school. I’d much rather see myself as an adjective. Preferably one that refers to my personality. Like ‘cool.’ Or ‘nice.’ Or ‘interesting.’”humansofny“Last year I did an exploration of having a child on my own. I went to the doctor, and after she looked at my uterus, she said: ‘Not only is it possible, but your uterus looks younger than its years.’ Then she put me in the stirrups and did a demo to show me exactly how the procedure would work. The ultrasound screen was right next to me. I kept looking at it and wishing I could see a baby on there. But I was already 48. I was single. My income wasn’t secure at the time. And I didn’t have family that could take care of the child if something happened to me. So I decided not to do it. I finally closed the door for good. I cried uncontrollably for weeks. It’s a gaping hole in my life that will never go away. I’ll just get better at dealing with it. I wish I’d done it on my own when I was younger. I wish I’d stopped complaining about the past, and hoping for the future, and just said: ‘Fuck it. This is where I am now, and this is what I can do about it.’”humansofny“Last week I was picking through the trash, looking for bottles and cans to recycle, and my social worker walked by with her family. She walked just a few feet from me. And I know she saw me. But she didn’t say a thing. Not even ‘hello.’ I asked her about it during our next meeting, and at first she denied seeing me. But then she told me that she had been in her ‘private space.’ That really put a stake in my heart. Why can’t you say ‘hello’ to me in your private space? So I’m writing her a letter. I’m using a dictionary because I want the words to be perfect. If you mess up your words, then it’s easy for people to ignore what you’re trying to say. And I want to be sure she knows exactly how it made me feel.”humansofny“It happened on Father’s Day. I took him out to lunch, and then afterward we went to a barbecue at his family’s house. He’d been drinking all day. At one point he’s got our daughter in his arms, and he tells her to call me a ‘biatch.’ So I start yelling at him. And he hits me so hard with his fist that I had to get ten stitches. That was the last straw for me. I still think he’s a great dad. I’ll give him that. A lot of people ask me how I can say that, but I see it like this: when he’s around my daughter, I see the love. She lights up when he walks in the room. I wanted that love for myself, but at least she gets it. And he’s a good provider. He works. He just bought her a bunch of new clothes this weekend. When he dropped them off at the house, he asked me if I was going to drop the charges. I told him ‘no.’ Not this time.”humansofny“I feel like I had so many more stories before I came to film school. I wrote so much when I was young. I’d fill up entire journals. I was a quiet kid, so writing was my way of imagining conversations that I’d never have in real life. But it doesn’t feel like I’m expressing myself anymore. It’s become less about whether I like it, and more about whether my professors and classmates like it. I’m always focused on the rhythm, or the structure, or the notes I received in class, or all these rules from a long time ago that everybody uses because they work. And it just feels like I’m swapping out decorations in a house that’s already been built. But I’m afraid to be more inventive, because if your work doesn’t fit the rules, then people will doubt your talent. So film school has made me much better at making other people happy. But it’s made me less happy. And that’s not a direction that I can see myself continuing for very long.”humansofny“My mother was sick for most of my life. She had nineteen years of treatment for Hodgkin’s disease. But she was the kind of mother that would come home from chemotherapy, vomit in the bathroom, and then still cook dinner for all of us. And she did this while getting a PhD in clinical psychology. She just loved being a mother. Even after the chemotherapy destroyed her ovaries, she adopted two more children. She passed away I was twenty-five. Shortly after she died, I realized that I couldn’t remember her voice. I’ve just never been an oral person. It was maddening. It felt almost disrespectful. I had all these old videos of her, but they were silent. So I thought I’d just never know what she sounded like. Then last night, my sister found a small cassette in an old box. It was from my mother’s answering machine. And she picked up the phone during one of the recordings. It was a month before she died. She was so sick at the time. But she said to the person: ‘Nicholas is coming to visit me, so I stayed up late baking, and I’m waking up early to clean.’”humansofny“I was in a relationship for most of my teenage years. He wasn’t a bad guy, but I think long relationships can be toxic when you’re that young. That’s the age when you’re supposed to be figuring yourself out. And that can be hard if you’re completely focused on another person. I was always more worried about ‘us’ than I was worried about myself. I’d make decisions just to maximize our time together: the places I worked, the classes I chose, the friends I spent time with. Recently I looked through my high school photos, and I don’t have a single picture when I’m not with him. And, I don’t know… it feels like some of those memories should have been mine alone.”humansofny“I like to shop, but I hate going to those fancy stores in midtown. They treat me like I don’t have any money. They’re always telling me prices when I didn’t ask. Either that, or they figure I’m coming in to steal. I went to one store recently, and as soon as I walked in the door, I saw the manager lean in to the clerk and say, ‘Watch her.’ And so this girl starts following me around-- real close. She was acting like she wanted to help. If I picked up an item, she’d say: ‘Let me hold onto that for you.’ So I thought to myself: ‘I’ll give you something to hold.’ I walked around that entire store. I went on a real spree. By the time we were finished, she was holding 25 dresses. You could barely see her face. Then I led her up to the cash register and said, ‘You know what? I changed my mind. I think I'll shop somewhere else.’”humansofny“I came to it late in life. I was already in college. We were playing a dice game in the back of a bar and my character transformed into a lion. I’ve been hooked ever since. Now I’m part of a huge role-playing community, and next week I’m going to a three-day event in Pennsylvania. Basically it’s a bunch of people getting together and pretending to be something we’re not. It’s the bonding that’s most important. The hobby is great, but you always spend more time talking then doing the hobby itself. We’re building a shared history. And each time we meet there’s more to reminisce about. It can be hard to meet people when you’re older, but I’ve made hundreds of friends in the community. When my dad got sick recently, I asked for ‘spells, prayers, and cat videos.’ The post had 111 comments and 94 emoticons.”humansofnyReally incredible update for everyone who donated to our Rohingya fundraiser earlier this year. Thanks to the hard work of @jeromejarre and Love Army, our expectations have been wildly exceeded. 2500 homes have been built and the remainder should be finished by next month. These houses were built by over 1500 *paid Rohingya volunteers.* Not only were they built to specification, but extra features were added to each house. Solar panels were added to every roof. (In the words of Jerome: ‘These are high quality solar panels, not cheap ones that break in two weeks.’) Lights and fans were installed. A custom cooking stove and chimney were also added, along with additional shelves for storing food. Thanks to Jerome’s obsession with controlling costs, these additional upgrades came in at just $70 per house, which Jerome funded from other sources.
Extremely thankful to Jerome and Love Army for being such good stewards. The money could not have been spent more efficiently. Jerome asked if I would mind sharing the fundraiser link again to help with routine maintenance of the houses. So if any one wishes to help more, they can be assured that their donations are in the right hands. LINK IN BIO.humansofny“It’s my reboot. I have a level of confidence on the softball field that I somehow need to find in the rest of my life. I’m like a puppy in the outfield. I don’t have to think about what I’m doing. You can hit the ball anywhere and I’ll track it down. I love the moment when the ball is in the air, and I’m focusing on it, and I’m not thinking about anything else. I’m not thinking about paying rent. I’m not worrying about the next audition. I’m not feeling the fear of being just a bartender. It’s my moment of Zen. I used to feel the same way when I was acting, or in front of a camera. And I still do-- when I get to do it."humansofny“At first it was absolutely shocking. He’s up every two hours. If all he does is grumble, there’s a good chance that he’ll fall back asleep. But if he starts gobbling out vowels and consonants—that means he’s up for good and nobody’s going back to sleep for a while. We’ve been getting some longer chunks of sleep lately. But whenever we think it’s conquered, there’s a curveball. So we’ve just had to embrace being absolutely knackered all the time. The first thing to go was our vocabularies. You know when you can’t quite think of a word-- but then you suddenly get it? Well that doesn’t happen anymore. The word never comes. So now we consider it a win if we're able to communicate a rough idea of what we mean.”humansofny“I’m writing a Grandma Noir. The premise is this: a lady comes to an old person’s home, but nobody likes her. Suddenly she turns up dead and our protagonist Helen has to solve the mystery. There’s a motorized wheelchair chase. There’s a Viagra orgy. There’s a villain who’s faking Alzheimer’s while masterminding a pill-trading operation. It’s got everything. I sent the book to a bunch of agents. I got a nibble from one of them. She told me that she made it to page 100 before quitting, so I figure I’m on the right track.”humansofnyRecently joined @timferriss for a long talk about the story and process behind Humans of New York. I’m constantly asking other people to be open and vulnerable, so I did my best to reciprocate. If you’re curious about HONY’s origins, or how the soup is made, you can find it on Apple Podcasts or by following link in bio.humansofny“My dad helped me choose my clothes until I was six years old but then I wanted to do it myself. He’s still my main fashion inspiration. He actually brought me this scarf from India. But he mainly likes to wear man shirts with words on them. At first I didn’t have a very good sense of style. I just wore pink leggings with shorts over them. I got better when I was nine or ten. And now that I’m eleven, I think I’m finally figuring it out.”humansofny“It was my decision to leave. There were too many problems. She hadn’t kissed me in years. We’d argue over every little thing. Our son was grown and I just didn’t see a reason to stay. So I came home from work one day, packed up my things, and left. I’ve been staying with my sister ever since. It’s been a tough two years. I’ve tried to reach out but she isn’t talking to me anymore. My son isn’t speaking to me either. They want nothing to do with me. I biked over here for Father’s Day. I was going to knock on their door but I changed my mind. I decided to just let them be. I wish I’d never left. Even though we were always fighting, it still felt like I had a home.”humansofny“A couple weeks ago we were coming home from visiting my brother in Long Island and we stopped at a burger place off the highway. He had a Junior Whopper. I had a Whopper. We split the fries. And while we were eating, he said: ‘You know what Daddy? You’re a really great Daddy. I love you Daddy.’ And that got me. I almost choked on my burger. Because it wasn’t bedtime. He wasn’t leaving for school. It was just off the cuff.”humansofny“Obama had been president for six days. The old timers in the twelve-step program tell you to associate the memory with something—so that’s how I remember it. The weather was just like this, even though it was November. It was sixtyish degrees. I was sitting on a stoop, having my morning beer and cigarette, and feeling disgusted with myself. I was wheezing so bad that it felt like I’d swallowed a whistle. And I had this moment of clarity. I knew I was done. So I took a couple more swigs, threw the pack of Newports into traffic, and walked over to Project Renewal on 3rd Street. I’ll be ten years sober if I can make it until November 10th. That was my day. And it still is my day. Even if I fail, I’ll remember that on that day I succeeded. And if I did it then, I can do it again.”humansofny“I was eleven when my mom divorced my stepdad. She had four kids at the time. I remember we were in the bedroom, and she said to me: ‘You’re the oldest so I’m going to need your help.’ And ever since then I’ve been ‘Mom Number Two.’ I picked my little brothers up from school. I cooked for them. I made sure they did their homework. I met with their teachers. I’d be the authority figure until mom came home from work. I was always the responsible one. Nobody ever had to worry about me. But now I’m twenty and my whole life has been about my little brothers. I’ve never really felt the security to figure myself out. But today is orientation at my new college. I just finished meeting with my advisor. There are so many clubs and organizations that I can join. I want to meet a lot of different people. I want to be more outspoken. I feel like this is my chance to learn who I am.”humansofny“I was diagnosed with leukemia during my early teens. It was a full year being out of school. And when I came back it felt like everyone had moved on without me. I had to repeat ninth grade. My social circles had changed and I was desperate to make new friends. I started trying way too hard to impress people. I’d make stuff up about myself. I remember pretending that I could read palms. Anything to get close to people who were cooler than me. But the worst part is that I started to avoid people who weren’t 'cool.' There was one girl I absolutely loved, but she had a weight problem and kids were mean to her. So I started ducking into classrooms if I saw her coming down the hall. Or I’d sit at the other end of the cafeteria. It was the opposite of who I’d always been. I’d always been the one making sure everyone was included. I was always the first one to introduce myself to new kids. I wanted everyone to feel important. But for awhile I became the opposite of that. I became a social climber."humansofny“I’m from a small country in Africa called Benin. I won the visa lottery to come here. I didn’t even know I was eligible. My brother entered my name and didn’t even tell me. I was studying to be a psychiatrist at the time. I assumed that I’d be able to continue with medical school. But when I arrived here, I found out that none of my credits would transfer. I had a choice: either go home and become a doctor, or start from the bottom. I didn’t speak any English. I didn’t have any money. But I knew if I could somehow make it here, my degree would be much more valuable. So I made the choice to stay. I began practicing English with my young nieces. The first thing I learned was: ‘I’m going to kick you.’ I got a job with a catering company and learned how to say ‘I’m here to deliver your food.’ I studied as many YouTube videos as I could during my free time. It’s been three years now. I’m almost finished with my bachelor’s degree. Just two classes left. At nights I work as a behavioral specialist in a mental health facility. I’m going to take the MCAT in September. My friends back home have all become doctors already, but I try not to think about them. I don’t want to lose my focus. I haven’t made it yet, but I’m making it.”humansofny“I’ve known I wanted to be an actor ever since we performed Horton Hears A Who in 5th grade drama camp. I studied theater in college. But right now I’m in between roles. It’s been a minute. My acting teacher told us to just focus on the callbacks. But getting callbacks is not getting a part. The last role I had was a space pirate in a Star Warsy kind of play. It was at an art gallery in Long Island City. I was fighting an evil race of aliens on a zombified planet, but I’d actually been hit by a train and was in a simulation to keep my brain active. It was every Halloween costume that I ever wanted to be, but I only made enough money to buy myself dinner. Do I choose more stability and less joy? Maybe I could find a job that has one element I enjoy, like Human Resources at Wells Fargo. Overall it would suck but at least I’d get to help people. Sure I’d spend six hours being upset, but at least I could help Jane with her issue.”humansofny“He’s had problems with speech since he was two years old. Even as a baby he would get frustrated when he couldn’t express himself. He’d scream. He’d clench his fists. He still occasionally has trouble knowing what he wants. Sometimes I can calm him down with words. Other times it just makes things worse, and I’m better off doing nothing at all. It’s a challenge every day. It’s especially tough in public because it seems like you have no control. You can feel people looking at you. And you feel judged, judged, judged. But every child is so different. Nobody understands your situation. And they don’t know your story.”humansofny“I tell my students things that only the Master of The Universe could know. I tell them that if they choose a certain path, they can be sure of success. At times I’ve convinced them that certain assignments will make or break their future. For a middle school to work, you have to impart a sense of urgency. You have to make them believe these things. Time may not be as important as we say it is, but it’s more important than they think it is. I teach in one of the most underprivileged neighborhoods in the city. And it’s almost too late to change their course when I get them. By seventh grade, the engine is almost finished, and you’re just adding the windows and tires.”humansofny“There was never any joy in it. I practiced every day since I was four years old. I was just afraid of what would happen if I stopped. My father was a ‘rageaholic.’ Even our piano playing came from a place of hate. He wanted to humiliate his colleagues and prove that his children were superior. He was a hematologist. He was respected in his field. His only friends were his colleagues. Occasionally he’d have them over to dinner. Or more accurately, they’d invite him first and he’d feel the need to reciprocate. Those dinners were an escape for my sister and me. He’d never act out his worst stuff in front of other people. I think the other doctors could sense something was wrong, but nobody ever pulled me aside. It felt like I was trapped in a castle with an evil king and queen and nobody was allowed inside. People did come in, of course. But they would never meddle. They were his guests and it’s not polite.”humansofny“Fifth grade graduation is in two weeks. I’m going to miss my teachers, lunch, recess, and my counselor Meghan. She’s a kind-hearted person that doesn’t give up on you. The first time I met Meghan was in third grade when I got really mad at one of my teachers who was being mean because of something called tenure. I punched the wall so hard that I got scars on my knuckles. I was sent to Meghan’s office and I talked to her for like two hours. I told her about the whole first half of the year. She didn’t even fidget when she was listening. Now we meet once a week. We always work on being empathetic. Empathy was my big thing during fourth and fifth grade.”humansofny“I was eating, sleeping, and shitting libraries. My life was becoming a little one note. All my friends were librarians. My social life consisted of professional development conferences. I needed another source of inspiration. So I started writing comic book reviews online. I built up a nice little portfolio. One of my reviews was actually quoted on the back of a comic book. Another one got copied and pasted into a marketing email. They spelled my name wrong but it still felt great. I haven’t made any money yet, but you can’t put a price tag on this. I’m writing all the time. I’m engaging a part of brain that was being ignored. Two years ago I just worked in library sales. Now I’ve got a press pass to Comic Con.”humansofny“When you’re a kid, Jesus sounds like a hippie or Bernie Sanders or something so it all sounds pretty nice. But then the rules get confusing. You go to Catholic school and some guy in a dress named Brother Roy starts beating you cause you got in a fight. It’s sorta like Gitmo in there. And you start to realize that all these rules are just to keep people down. To keep women down especially because they have the ultimate power of not fucking you. I do like the Jews because their version is less full of shit. A lot of those Talmud guys are so smart that they’re practically just atheists who love fairy tales. And Buddhism is pretty cool too cause it’s all in your head. No Pope. No mandatory meetings. Anyway, let me know if you figure it out. I don’t know shit I just dress well.”humansofny“When I first moved here I was living with my uncle in Long Island. He lives in a Jewish neighborhood. I accidentally set off his alarm one night when I came home. I couldn’t defuse it. The alarm kept screaming: ‘Burglary! Burglary! Burglary!’ I was the only black person in the neighborhood at the time, so I panicked. I knew it didn’t look good. And I didn’t want to die in this movie. So the first thing I did was call 911. The operator was like ‘What’s your emergency?’ I told her: ‘I’m staying at my uncle’s house, and the alarm is going off, and I need you to tell the responding officer to expect a black man.’ And she said: ‘Is your uncle black too?’ And I said: ‘Ma'am, all of us are black.’ Then I fixed up a bowl of macaroni and cheese, turned on all the lights, stood in the middle of the living room, and waited for the knock.”humansofny“I’d been smoking pot since ninth grade and it made me think differently. So I figured that psychedelics would be the next step. I’d just moved to California. I was hearing stories of people tripping in nature. At the minimum they were being inspired and at the maximum they were being enlightened. It seemed like there was something more out there and I just wanted to get a glimpse of it. Mushrooms definitely give you a feeling of having ‘made it through.’ It’s like you’ve been sheltered from reality your entire life, and you’re finally seeing it, and it’s going to stay that way. But I became obsessed with the chemical. I was making all these beautiful connections. And they seemed so real. But in the end I was still alone in my head. And I was becoming more isolated. Some people find a lot of value in them, but my journey with psychedelics ended at the hospital.”humansofny“I was not a tough kid growing up. I was timid. I was very sensitive to pain in other kids. I never wanted to do anything that made people feel worse than they already did. And God forbid I ever hurt somebody. That would just destroy me. I’m having to learn to dial that back as an adult. There’s such a thing as being too compassionate. If you’re too scared of causing pain, you can easily be manipulated. Your fear becomes a button to be pushed. In my last relationship, I was made to feel hurtful or aggressive whenever I stood up for myself. So I always backed down. I’ve got to learn the line between being compassionate and being a doormat.”humansofny“I felt humiliated and suicidal in college. It seemed like my personal failings were on display for everyone to see. I’m not all that attractive. I have a speech impediment. I’m not good socially. I saw other guys having romantic success and I felt a lot of envy. I concluded that women owed me something. They owed me a chance. And I was angry they weren’t giving it to me. I’m ashamed of it now, but during that time I formed a lot of bad and hateful opinions. I joined ‘incel’ communities on 4chan and Reddit. I found a lot of men there who felt just like me. The community provided this pseudoscientific justification for hating women. It let us feel like it wasn’t our fault. We stoked each other’s anger. And it felt good. Honestly, anger is just very addictive. You want to feel angry when you’re suffering. It gives you adrenaline. It gets your endorphins going. It’s a release. It’s a substitute for what you’re missing.”humansofny“I turned fifty a couple weeks ago. I’ve lived in the same neighborhood for most of my life, which makes it more challenging because everything around me has changed so dramatically. My best friend and I got our first apartment here when we were twenty years old. We used to play this game where we’d race each other through the streets. We’d take off our shirts and run to the Hudson. First one to get there was King Of The World. There was a vibrancy back then. People would see us running but they’d be OK with it. Because we were young. We were allowed to take up space. You think you’ll act young forever but the rules change. Your audience won’t allow it. We’re programmed to see older people a certain way. You can almost chart it on a graph. You disappear as you age and the world notices you less and less. And it makes you realize how much energy you got from being noticed."humansofny“It’s International Whores' Day today. It’s about reclaiming the word. ‘Whore’ is a hateful word. There’s so much stigma in that word. It can be used against any woman that you want to hurt. It’s dehumanizing. And it strips sex workers of dignity. Construction workers get paid to use their bodies. Factory workers get paid to use their bodies. But if you use your genitals then suddenly you’re an outcast. Sex workers are at the highest risk of sexualized violence. And it’s funny that in this era where everyone is calling out workplace harassment, the most vulnerable group is being ignored. They’re not seen as worthy of protection. Language matters. So we shouldn’t be calling people ‘whores.’ We should be calling them ‘people.’”humansofny“I married when I was sixteen. It was an arranged marriage. I’d never seen him before. I just came home from school one day and my dad told me that someone is coming to see you. He said: ‘You’re going to get married.’ The man was twenty-nine. I was so upset. Nobody ever discussed it with me. I had wanted to finish my education. I had wanted to be a flight attendant. I fought so hard but the whole family turned against me. Everyone stopped talking to me. My father stopped eating. So I gave up. I married my husband and came to America. I had three kids by the time I was twenty. I’ve accepted it now. He’s a good father to my children. He tried to tell me what to do at first but he’s given up. I work at Starbucks and the bakery. They’re nice people. They treat me good. But one day I’d like to maybe have a higher position so that I can work just one job. So I can spend some time on myself. And so I can maybe finally go to school."humansofny“We had a Native American museum today in third grade and the whole school came. I’ve been looking forward to it ever since second grade when I learned that third graders get to make dioramas. The museum was open from 10:15 to 10:45 or something like that. There was a cooking section where we gave out pumpkin bread. Then there was a tools and artifacts section. My table was in the games section. I put my snow snake on display. Snow snake is a very fun game in my opinion, but only four people came to my table. They said: ‘What is that?’ And I said: ‘It’s a snow snake. You can read about it on my poster.’ Then they looked at my poster for two seconds and went to get some pumpkin bread."humansofny“I worked at a make-up counter after graduating with a chemistry degree. My African mother was so mad. But I love make-up. It’s like therapy. You make people feel good. You can change how they think, how they walk, how they talk. It’s transformative. Even when I got a job at a tech company, I still primarily viewed myself as a make-up artist. I had my own website. On the weekends I’d work weddings. But I always wanted to do it full time. So I finally took the leap. I moved to New York. I started getting on assistant lists. I did make-up for a few web series. I networked with people on Instagram. It was scary at first, but it’s been three years now and I finally feel safe. I’m getting magazine jobs. I just did a pilot for Comedy Central. Last month I paid off all my credit cards. And I think my African mother is finally coming around.”humansofny“I’m just beginning art school. I’m trying to find my own voice and style. I’m doing it in a Frankenstein sort of way. I’m borrowing ideas and techniques from other artists, and then I try to change them a little. It’s hard to create something new because it feels like everything has been done before. It was easier in high school. I was just starting out so it was impossible to disappoint myself. But now I have some training and I feel pressure to make something good. It seems like my work needs to have a certain quality or it’s not worth the effort. It’s hard to get back to ‘anything goes.’”humansofny“I have pretty bad social anxiety. But I decided that I was going to be more outgoing when I went to college. So I joined the Facebook group for incoming freshmen, and I sent a generic ‘hey’ to everyone. Almost everyone gave me a generic ‘hey’ back, but he kept responding. Then he added me on Snapchat. He started sending me selfies and I responded with pictures of my living room. He wanted to FaceTime, but I hate seeing my own face in the corner so we just talked on the phone instead. When school finally started, we went out together with a group of people. We didn’t make much eye contact but we did stand next to each other the entire time. A month later we were in class and I was making fun of him for not using soap when he washes his hands. And he said: ‘If I use soap, will you date me?’ And I said ‘yes.’ So here we are.”humansofny“After graduating I worked as an industrial engineer. I spent five years designing presses for all kinds of factories. But it got too predictable. I was spending eight hours in front of a computer every day. It wasn’t enough for me. My mind was always somewhere else. Engineering has never just been a job for me. It’s what makes me feel alive. It has to be something I struggle with. If I find the answer too easily, it has no value for me. So I went back to school and got my PhD in biomechanics, and now I’m doing research in exoskeletons. My lows are now lower. I never feel smart enough. I’m constantly discovering people who are doing similar or better work. But my highs are also higher. Because every time I discover a solution, it feels like I’m bringing the future closer."humansofny“I’m from a small town in the mountains of northern Georgia. We’re famous for apples. I moved here a week ago to try to be an actor. Right now I’m applying for waiter positions. I’ve got a little crypto currency and $5,000 saved from working at the carwash, so I figure I can make it for at least a year. I did have one major role back in Georgia. It was the guy’s first film. I had a big death scene where a ghost blew some powder on my face and melted it off. I’m really just taking all the jobs I can get right now so I can build a reel. It’s mostly unpaid stuff. I booked a music video for Sunday that I found on Facebook. Don’t ask me the artist or genre. All it said was: ‘Have to be comfortable being painted.’ Whatever that means.”humansofny“When I went to college, I thought about joining one of those Asian student organizations. But I wasn’t sure if I wanted to go ‘all in’ on being Asian. I had to ask myself how integral it was to my identity. I’ve never been very traditional. I grew up in a white town on Long Island. If I described myself in three adjectives, ‘Asian’ wouldn’t be one of them. But on the other hand, the world is going to see race anyway. I view myself as Chinese, but Asian is the first thing people see. So if it’s how everyone sees you, should you see yourself the same way?”humansofny“When I’m home, nobody will talk to me. It’s like I am dead. I don’t like quiet because then I have nothing. So I ride the train into the city. Compared to home, the city is like heaven. There are a million people you can ask for help. There are people to help you up the stairs. And there are so many smells. I love the smell of food. Right now I’m trying to memorize my way to Carnegie Hall. I like to go to theaters and museums where my mind can be nourished. Sometimes I can hear tourists talking about the exhibits. Sometimes I hear college students talking to each other and it makes me feel younger. It makes me feel like I’m still alive in this world.”humansofny“We’ve been married for almost twenty years. We have two children. But he suffers from depression and self-medicates with alcohol. He’ll quit drinking for stretches at a time, but he keeps falling back into it. So I have to support our family on a single income. And I’m just so tired of keeping him uplifted all the time. I don’t feel emotionally supported. There’s no physical intimacy. But I can’t bring myself to leave. He’s a great dad when he’s sober. And I know that our family might be the only thing holding him together. But I can’t help but wonder: ‘Am I missing out on an amazing relationship?’ Especially when I feel tempted at a work party. I just miss that feeling of connection. But my husband hasn’t crossed any red lines. He hasn’t hit me. He hasn’t cheated. If I found out he cheated, it would be so easy. And it’s gotten to the point where I almost hope he would.”humansofny“Five years ago I had a bout with breast cancer. I didn’t catch it very early. I had to get chemo, radiation, and a mastectomy. I’d never felt so tired in my entire life, but it didn’t just throw me off physically. It made me really, really sad. I lost all my enthusiasm. I lost my positivity. Before it happened, I had so many dreams. I had been thinking of starting a business. Or maybe writing stories again. It seemed like I could accomplish anything if only I did the things that I was supposed to do. But all that disappeared after the cancer. I got much more self-conscious. I started thinking: ‘If bad things can happen at any time—why even bother?’ So I’ve been in a bit of a rut these last few years. I’ve been floating along as an office manager. But I recently lost that job, and I’m thinking this might be my chance to go after my dreams again. I’d love to work with young folks. I’d love to write books and stories for children. And I know it sounds crazy, but I really want to open a bookshop.”humansofny“I came to New York when I was twenty years old. At night I’d sleep at the YMCA, and during the day I’d go around to all the fashion houses and show them my portfolio. I was so shy that I could barely muster up the courage. I’d stand outside for thirty minutes before I even walked in the door. But somehow I got a job as an illustrator for Oleg Cassini. He was a major designer in the movies. I’d been working there for six months when he asked me to sketch a collection of five dresses. They were just rough outlines to show where the seaming would be. He never told me what they were for. Then a few weeks later I was riding on a train, and I saw my sketches in the newspaper. They were for Jackie Kennedy to wear in the White House.”humansofny“I’m producing a podcast right now and I keep coming home pissed off. I dread getting emails from my collaborators. I get angry every time they disagree with my approach. It’s just that I want to feel proud of what I create. I want everything that I make to be a reflection of myself. And that’s impossible when you’re working with collaborators. So I have to get better at separating myself from my work. Every project doesn’t need to represent me as a human. The reality is that the podcast is bigger than me. There’s a lot of money involved. There’s a lot of people involved. And for some reason I’m the only one that’s pissed off. If I keep saying that the problem is everyone else, and one by one they’re saying the problem is me—then it’s probably me.”humansofny“My daughter is always asking me to play with her Barbie dolls. I try to tell her that I’m just going to watch but she starts begging me. So I try to do the man stuff. You know… fix the roof, move the furniture, maybe wash the Barbie car.”humansofny“Annie had a tantrum because our magazine had a Fun Zone with puzzles and I did all the puzzles. So she started stomping around but Mommy got sick of it so Annie went to time out in our room and turned out all the lights. I tried to go inside but she kicked her boots at me. I waited for ten minutes and then I went in quickly and asked her to help me on a puzzle where you had to find all the differences. And that made her happy again because Annie loves puzzles."humansofny“Having twins made me a more relaxed parent. When you watch two kids grow up at the same time, it makes you less concerned about benchmarks. Each of them had different talents and struggles. He could do all the physical stuff first. We had to put a net on the crib because he was always climbing out. He could swim first. He learned to ride a bike several years earlier than her. But she was potty trained first. She was reading by the age of three. And she was much better at drawing pictures-- her fire trucks always had four wheels, and his were just red scribbles. If I’d only had one child, I’d probably have been obsessing over these talents and struggles. I think every parent needs to feel like their child is special. But twins made me realize that all children grow differently. And it’s absurd to rank and classify them at such a young age.”humansofny“I want to make sure I don’t miss a second of connectedness to the brands I’m representing. In the digital world, there’s always this feeling that if you don’t respond back—it’s a lost opportunity. If someone is talking to you, you have to answer or they might think you don’t care. If a client asks my opinion, and I don’t reply ‘I agree with that’—he might ask someone else. My paycheck depends on always being connected. So there’s always a screen in front of me. I’m always responding to ‘pings’ and ‘dings.’ But it has a lot of consequences. Especially on my family. My kids are growing up, and the moments I should be focusing on are happening all around me. So that’s where I am right now. I want to figure out how technology and innovation can give me more time with my family, not less.”humansofny“I was raised with that Jewish intellectual worship of knowledge. But all my professors in college were small-minded nasty little bitches getting off on their own power, wanting me to parrot them while telling me they didn’t. So I decided I was a nihilist and that I was going to do as many drugs as possible. If the goal is to spend your whole life trying to get rewards to trigger chemicals in your brain, why not go straight for the chemicals? But that didn’t work out very well. It quickly became less of a philosophy, and more of a massive drug addiction.”humansofny“I’m doing a review of last year. I’m looking at all the goals I set and whether I managed to achieve them. A big one for me was that I finally managed to get my driver’s license. It’s a little embarrassing because I’m well past that age, but I’ve always been terrified of driving. So I signed up for some lessons. I studied hard. I took extremely meticulous notes. Then I went to the testing center with my driving instructor. They assigned me a real hard faced guy from Eastern Europe. My instructor told me: ‘This guy fails everyone.’ So I started off pretty nervous. I messed up almost immediately and made a rolling stop. I’m pretty sure I stopped completely-- but apparently it was a rolling stop. The test seemed to go on forever. I couldn’t charm the guy. I tried to make conversation but he was silent the entire time. Then after we finished, he made me sit outside his office for an eternity. But finally he came out and told me that I’d passed! It was such a relief! I haven’t driven since.” (Sydney, Australia)humansofny“I was at a rave when I was sixteen, and my mates said ‘Try this.’ And it made me the opposite of who I normally am. I’d always been really shy, but suddenly I was dancing in the crowd and talking to everyone around me. Everyone else had issues too so it felt like I belonged. Soon I found a source and it became every weekend for the whole weekend. I’d be completely wiped on Monday so I started skipping school. I ended up flunking out. My depression and anxiety got really bad. I was getting in fights. I lashed out at anyone who tried to stop me. When I was seventeen I tried to run away from home but got pulled over. My mom sat me down and said: ‘If you keep going down this road, you’re not a son of mine.’ I’m better now. I just do it once a month. I know what’s at stake. My anxiety is much better now, but I think the stutter might be permanent.” (Sydney, Australia)humansofny“We met two years ago at the office. At the time he’d just gotten out of a really bad breakup. It started with just lunch and coffee. Then we started meeting after work. We hooked up a little-- somewhere between second and third base. I told him that I liked him so if it wasn’t going anywhere then we couldn’t be friends. But that’s exactly what ended up happening. It’s excruciating. It seems like we’re always on the edge of a relationship. We hang out. We go to the beach. I’ll go to his place, cook dinner, watch a movie, and then leave. We get handsy. We might kiss a little. But that’s it. Recently we went on a trip to New Zealand and shared a bed for four days. We spooned every night but nothing else happened. I know I’m complicit, but when I push him on it, he acts confused and says that he has a lot of friendships like this. We kissed a little on my birthday last week. The next day I texted him: ‘I’m not going to pretend this isn’t happening.’ He wrote back: ‘Let me think about it. I’m in meetings.’ And he still hasn’t replied.” (Melbourne, Australia)humansofny“He’s always wanted kids. So I thought: ‘We’ll roll the dice and see what happens.’ I honestly didn’t think I’d get pregnant. They say it’s harder when you’re older, but here we are. I’m not confident that I’m going to be a good mom. I think of maternal women as women who’ve always wanted kids. I’ve known those people and watched those people and I’ve always thought: ‘I’m not like you.’ I’m afraid I’ll resent the change. Everything stops for the kid—no matter what you’re doing. I see my friends struggling to have a simple conversation because their kid keeps interrupting, or touching things, or running around. That will be new. But I’m trying to focus on the good parts. I am excited to teach it things. And hopefully I’ll be changed for the better. But what if there’s not a bond? You need that connection to stave off the resentment. And if it’s not there, how do you fix that? I’ve got one friend who doesn’t feel it very much. She’s not patient with all the interruptions. She cuts her kids off and sends them away. She told me: ‘If I’d known what was coming, I’d never have done it.’” (Melbourne, Australia)humansofny“My father had an ulcer that became infected. It was relatively simple to cure but he refused to believe the doctors. Instead he diagnosed himself with some sort of virus. He stopped taking his medicine. He created his own ointments instead. He’s very intelligent so his reasoning could sound very convincing. It was hard to identify when it crossed the line into mental illness. But the infection never healed. He went from surfing and swimming every day to barely being able to walk. He aged twenty years. And still he refused to go to a doctor. He’d isolate himself from anyone who challenged him. When he finally collapsed and was admitted to a hospital, the doctors said he had the lowest red blood cell count they’d ever seen. Only then did he accept that things were out of his control. He’s much healthier now. He’s almost back to normal. He’ll occasionally fall into the old script of defending his actions-- but he manages to catch himself.” (Sydney, Australia)humansofny“I'm studying abroad right now. I have a bit of a 'boyfriend thing' going on back home. He's a nice guy. We met at a party and twenty minutes later he held my hair while I vomited. Even though I wasn’t very attracted to him, he intrigued me. I’d never met a boy who didn’t just care about sex. I’d only dated football players and gross teenage boys. He was different. He genuinely cares about people. He’d bring me all kinds of presents. One time I had a bad week at school and he brought me a gift package with all my favorite things. It was nice to have that much attention. I did just enough of the girlfriend thing to keep him around. Nothing he did affected me, and everything I did affected him. It was a weird sense of power to be the one with less feelings. I’d always been in the opposite position. Even after we broke up, I still hung out with him and let him give me gifts. He even gave me this journal for my trip.” (Melbourne, Australia)humansofny“I’m not looking to set the world on fire, but I need something to challenge me. It feels like I’m reaching a critical juncture and I need to make some sort of decision. Up until now I’ve just been floating along. I’ve been at the same job for a long time. I do the same things day in and day out: smoking, drinking, things like that. It’s just so easy to be a consumer. It’s so easy to reach for pleasure and avoid pain, so that you never have to face the future or think about getting old. I don’t have anything elaborate in mind. Maybe just get out more, or move to a new place. Maybe have my son live with me for awhile. I just want to prove that I can set a course and do the things I say I’m going to do. Or if I can’t, I at least want to be honest with myself. So I can stop beating myself up about it.” (Sydney, Australia)humansofny“I moved here from Kenya with my husband. He became very abusive when we arrived. He made sure I didn’t have any friends. If anyone came to visit me, he’d immediately say: ‘I don’t like them.’ I was scared all the time. When my mother came to visit from Africa, she could tell something was going on. A mother can always tell. She saw how he spoke to me. When she left for the airport, she seemed so worried about me. It broke my heart. So the next time he hit me, I called the police. And I’ve never looked back. I have a great new boyfriend now. The kids are happy. I’ve got a job and I’m back in school. Things are really perfect. But I beat myself up a lot. I think: ‘If I’d only left earlier, I’d have been here so long ago.’ But I did leave. I’m here now. And that’s the important thing. Sometimes I need to remember to pat myself on the back.” (Melbourne, Australia)humansofny“This is the first time I’ve travelled alone. My friend told me that you learn a lot about yourself when you travel alone. But so far, I find it the other way around. I feel like I learn more about myself when I have to relate to other people. Today I walked around Sydney. I saw everything I was supposed to see. I don’t even know why I did it. It just felt like the thing I should be doing. Maybe I’m just not a contemplative person. I generally feel satisfied with my life. I don’t feel like I’m missing anything. I don't have to love what I'm doing to be happy. But does that make me ignorant? Should I be searching for something?" (Sydney, Australia)humansofny“He was clean when I met him. He’d drink and use drugs a bit, but only when he partied. But he’s not strong like me. He tried heroin and he liked the feeling. And he couldn’t stop. It’s not that he’s a bad person. He has a soft heart. He smiles a lot. But he has a demon to fight and I already tried my best to help him. I tried to move him from the area. I tried to get him into rehab. I took him to parenting courses and counseling. Things got better for about six weeks. He was acting positive and he was there every day. Even if we got in a fight, he’d stick around and work things out. But then he started disappearing again. He started getting angry and violent. Then he’d come back on drugs and act like everything was fine. And I wasn’t going to allow it. You can’t just do anything you want and come home to my children. I hate being a single mom. It’s lonely. I hate that I’m playing into an Aboriginal stereotype. But ultimately my dedication is to my kids. I haven’t cut him off completely, but now he’s on his own. He’s got to figure it out himself. He can’t visit my kids until he’s 100 percent.” (Sydney, Australia)humansofny“Both of us are very passionate about the environment. We actually met at the screening of a documentary about ocean pollution. Maybe we’ll get politically involved one day, but right now we’re just trying to live sustainable, happy lives without harming anything. We try to focus on the little victories. Recently we set up a triage hospital to help injured ducks during hunting season. And a few weeks ago we organized a beach clean that picked up half a ton of rubbish. It can be hard to affect change on a global scale, but we try to set an example, and it’s nice to see ripples of change in the people around you. I’ve even got my mom teaching vegan recipes to her friends.” (Sydney, Australia)humansofny“The biggest insurance company in Australia collapsed in 2001, and there was a royal commission to find out the cause. At the time I was working as a journalist. I’d been getting the itch to write a book, so I decided that I’d become an expert on the subject. Kind of a weird thing to choose, but I wanted to bang a peg in the ground about something. When the book was published, I went to visit the main prosecutor and I noticed a copy sitting on her desk. That made me feel like I’d created something of value. The book was a bit like taking a leak in a dark suit. Not many people noticed, but it left a warm feeling.” (Sydney, Australia)humansofny“Since there are only two million Assyrians left, there’s a feeling that we might not survive. So we lean on our rituals. We lean on our church. We lean on our language, which nobody else speaks. It's a ‘we’ culture. Everything is about the group. And if you wander too far from the group, you become a threat. Because the group can’t afford to lose anyone else. Your relatives will remind you that you should be proud to be Assyrian. You’ll be reminded that our people were slaughtered. So it’s tough to go your own way. For the last couple months I’ve been traveling alone. My mother is convinced that this is my breakout plan. She’s been so strict on me my entire life. But a couple days ago she sent me a text message that brought me to tears. It said: ‘I know that I said you've seen enough and that you should come back, but if you want to stay longer, and you feel that it's safe, than you should definitely stay. And we'll hear from you when you come back.’” (Sydney, Australia)humansofny“I do lifesaving training every weekend. Sometimes we have races where we have to paddle out to buoys in the middle of the ocean. There was one really tough race a few weeks ago. The ocean was messy like today but the waves were even bigger. And there were lots of bluebottles. Those are like jellyfish but worse. My dad said that I didn’t have to race, and half of the competitors dropped out, but I chose to do it anyway because I wanted to prove that I could be a lifeguard. On the outside I was ready to go but on the inside I was really nervous. Once the race started, some of the girls turned back because the waves were so big, and others were nose-diving and falling off their boards. But I made it all the way to the end and got fourth place. Everyone was congratulating me because fourth place is huge for me.” (Sydney, Australia)humansofny“I come from a village. My life would have been nothing if I’d stayed home. I’d just wake up, cook for my siblings, and clean the house. I wanted to do more with my life, so I’m working in the city to save for my education. It’s been a lot lonelier than I expected. I’m so far from home. I spend my evenings alone in my room at the boarding house. I have nothing to do but think of my family. I’ve been here a year, but I still haven’t met many people because I work so much. My coworker is my closest friend. She’s like my mother away from home. She reminds me to eat, take my medicine, and get enough sleep. If she sees that I’m sad, she tells me to rest and does the work herself. It’s just nice to feel cared for. I’m not sure if I could make it without her.” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“I work on cargo ships. I’m usually at sea for nine months at a time, but sometimes it can go past a year. My last trip was 25 months. It’s tough out there. You’re so far from your family. It’s been easier since we got Internet last year. But before that you could only make phone calls when you got to a port. And you’d only get a letter once every two months. My mother died during a recent trip and I couldn’t even go home for the funeral. She was fine when I left, but somewhere off the coast of South Africa, the captain came into the engine room and told me she’d passed away. I was so weak I couldn’t work. The other guys volunteered to take over my shifts. Everyone chipped in some money and gave me a gift. We do that every time someone loses a family member. Your crew mates are all you have out there. All of us are going through the same thing. And if you don’t share your problems, you’ll go crazy.” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“My boyfriend left as soon as I got pregnant. I was terrified to tell my father, but he discovered my pregnancy test hidden in a drawer. He didn’t speak to me for a few days. We’d always been close, so I knew something was up. Finally he asked me if I wanted to tell him something. I began to cry. I thought he was going to kick me out of the house. But he just went to speak with my mom in the other room, and when he came back, he asked what I planned to do. I told him I wanted to keep the baby, and from that moment on he was very supportive. He cooked me all kinds of dishes whenever I had cravings. He gave me words of encouragement. He started saving money in case I needed a cesarean section. But during my seventh month he came down with a fever after wading through floodwater. The next week it turned into a cough. We took him to the hospital, went home to get clothes, but he died by the time we got back. It was so sudden. I had no idea what I was going to do. I got all my strength from my father. It seemed like keeping the baby had been a mistake. It’s been a tough few years. I had to drop out of school and find a job, but my son is doing well. He’s very smart. He comes home from school with stickers and stars. He’s a ‘Mama’s boy.’ It’s been hard, but I’ve proven to myself that I didn’t have to end a life just because I couldn’t face it.” (Manila, Phillipines)humansofny“Soon after my father passed away, my mother got addicted to gambling. We began falling behind on the rent. I realized what was happening when I found a Casino Filipino membership card in her wallet. I tried confronting her, but she got furious. She told me I had no right to tell her what to do. She began to disappear for days at a time. There was no money for my thesis project at school. I’d borrow food from our relatives just to feed my younger siblings. Then a few months ago our landlord finally kicked us out and we moved into a slum. It was so noisy and dirty. But I did my best to ignore it and focus on my schoolwork. We live in an evacuation center now because the slum burned down. My friends at school have been helping me with clothes and food. And during it all, I’ve kept up my grades. I’m graduating on April 3rd with a degree in Secondary Education. I’m going to become a teacher. I think I've already learned a special skill that teachers have to keep their personal problems out of the classroom.” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“I’d always been very curious as a kid. I remember taking apart electronics and putting them back together, just to see if they’d still work. But I lost all that enthusiasm during my teenage years. My house became very dark, literally and figuratively. The lights were always off. My parents were always fighting. We never spoke to each other, and if we did, it was always in short sentences. All I cared about was getting out. I put the minimal amount of effort into school. I was angry all the time. I went through life without any goals and ended up getting a job that I wasn’t passionate about. But then one day I downloaded a program onto my office computer that gave me control over the entire network. It was my introduction to hacking, and I’ve been addicted to it ever since. I feel inspired every day. I started learning everything I could. I even discovered you can do it legally, so I’m back in school, getting my degree in information security.” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“My father died on the day he got out of prison, so I never knew him. I was on my own as a child. I wasn’t able to go to school. I was hungry all the time. I’d wait all day by the marketplace until they threw out the rotten food. And if I couldn’t find any food, I’d steal it. I’ve spent over twenty years of my life in prison. My last sentence was for murder. A man slapped my mother so I stabbed him in the heart. But I’ve been trying to change ever since I adopted my son. I convinced his parents to let me have him because they were neglecting him. He was extremely sick when I found him. He was skinny like a lizard. But now he’s spoiled. Whenever he wants something, I give it to him. I don’t want him to be like me. I want him to go to school. My neighbors are in awe of my son. He never begs or fights. He’s very respectful because he’s so afraid of me. I always tell him: ‘If you ever fight or steal, I’m going to kill you.’” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“My stepfather would come to my side of the room when everyone else was asleep. I’d heard about these things on television, but I couldn’t believe it was happening to me. I told nobody. I was ashamed. I didn’t want anyone spreading rumors. I couldn’t even tell my mom because who would she believe: him or me? So I just left the house when I turned seventeen. I started sleeping at the houses of my friends. It was so lonely. I never stayed in the same place for long. And my mother grew so angry with me. It ruined our relationship. I had been helping her raise my siblings, so she thought I was abandoning my responsibilities. Even today she doesn’t know why I ran away. I haven’t even told my husband about this. But what does it matter anymore? I’m older now. And my stepfather’s dead.” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“You know the story of Martha and Mary? One of them needed to make everything perfect for Jesus, and the other one just listened to him. Well my mother was the one who needed everything to be perfect. She would lose her temper every Christmas because something was out of place. She was the definition of a ‘tiger mom.’ She rarely praised me. She showed her love through sermons and lectures. I was afraid of her, and so I always performed well on my assignments. I always made the honor roll. I became an executive at a fairly young age. I can thank her training for a lot of those things. But one thing I never learned was how to fail. I was always too afraid of the consequences. So even today I’m not good with the unknown. It’s hard for me to try something new, because I’m scared of messing up.” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“She asked me to pick her up early from school because she was vomiting. That’s when she told me that her period was late. We went to the store and bought a pregnancy test, but the first one came out blurry. A few hours later we tried again and it came out clear. I told her I wanted to break up. I’m ashamed of it now, but I was only eighteen. I felt like I was way too young. I just wanted to escape. She started crying and told me that I’m a bad person. She said: ‘You did this to me.’ So I started crying too, and I told her I was sorry, and I told her we’d figure it out. Our son is two years old now. It’s happy but it’s hard. If I didn’t have a kid right now, I’d probably be working in an office. I’d be sitting at a desk and typing on a computer. Instead I’m working as a messenger. I’m outside all the time. I’m always worried about buying milk for my kid. We’re all living with my parents now. We’re doing well as a couple. Whenever we’re stressed, we talk about it together. She understands because she gave up a lot too. She wanted to be a cook before she met me.” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“I’m a researcher. I work with local governments to draft legislation that encourages sustainable tourism. Right now I’m working on guidelines for sea turtle interactions. Currently there aren’t any laws regulating interactions with marine wildlife, so many species are being threatened. Dive companies are luring whale sharks with food and disrupting their migratory patterns. Tourism isn’t a bad thing. It benefits the economy and encourages conservation. It just needs to be sustainable. The industry needs to grow. But it needs to grow in a way that doesn’t just enrich a few businessmen at the expense of our shared natural resources.” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“When you’re six you have like twenty-eight responsibilities. You have to help your mom. You have to help your dad. And you have to keep your room clean so your parents don’t come in and see your secrets. I have over one hundred secrets and only five have been discovered because they’re protected by lasers. I’ll tell you one but then I’ll have to throw it away. I’m a real ninja master because I got powers from glowing red rocks I found in the caverns of lost treasure. Someone hid them there in the 1980’s during World War 7. That’s all I can tell you now because I don’t want everybody to know how special I am.” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“My young son is very curious. Every time I come home, he asks me so many questions. He wants to know all about my day. It's motivating for me because I always want to have something exciting to tell him. But recently I’ve been out of work so there isn’t much to say. I’ve been going on so many interviews without any luck. I don’t try to hide anything from him because he sees that I’m striving. I just tell him: ‘I’m looking for a job that suits me, and I still haven’t found the right one yet.’ But today I finally found a new job selling security equipment. I’m starting tomorrow. So I’m very excited to go home and report the good news.” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“I’m starting an advocacy group at my university to break the stigma around domestic violence. We have about seventy members so far. I want to give women the confidence to speak about things that they only whisper about. I know what it’s like. I lived under the reign of my father for most of my life. He’d throw things. He’d punch us. I had to do so many little things to help us survive. I told the nuns at my school. I told our neighbors to call the police if they heard screaming. I made a duplicate key so we could go back for food whenever we escaped the house. During one argument I tried to put myself between him and my mother. He grabbed a knife and held it to my throat for three minutes. I remember him saying: ‘You’re a disgrace to me,’ and ‘I never wanted you,’ and ‘You make life harder.’ I was terrified, but I’d been terrified for most of my life, so I knew exactly what to do. I removed my mind from the situation. I prayed for my mother. I tried to reflect on my life. I remember feeling happy because I’d been alive for fourteen years, and I’d protected my mother for all that time.” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“Now I have someone to play with!” (Manila, Philippines)humansofny“I had to break up with my girlfriend last week. We’d been trying to hide our relationship because our parents think we’re too young to date. I’d been telling my mom we were just friends. And we told her dad I was gay. But last week a neighbor took a picture of us kissing in the park, and my mom surprised me with the pictures when I got home. I had to promise that I’d end the relationship and focus on my studies. I’m actually on my way to her house right now. But it’s only because I need help with a school project.” (Manila, Philippines)humansofnyThanks to everyone who donated to the fundraiser this week! As of this moment, $1,836,000 has been raised from over 35,000 donors. That will be enough to build 3,000 sturdy bamboo houses for Rohingya refugees that are currently living in make-shift plastic shelters. A family of five can live in each house, so with monsoon season approaching, these houses will significantly improve the living conditions of **nearly 15,000 people.** Thank you so much to everyone who donated. I’ll be leaving the fundraiser up for the rest of the day—the link is in my bio for anyone who’d still like to make a donation.
Before moving on, I want to give a special thanks to Jerome Jarre, who was largely the inspiration for this fundraiser. (Pictured here with Sai’d, who’s story we shared yesterday.) Last year, Jerome teamed up with a group of You Tubers and social media influencers to form Love Army—which has raised nearly $5,000,000 to help displaced people in Somalia as well as Rohingya refugees. I was most impressed by the fact that Jerome then moved to both Somalia and Bangladesh for several months to ensure the money was being used effectively with zero overhead costs. Jerome and Sa’id will be working with hundreds of paid Rohingya volunteers to construct the houses we’re funding, and will ensure all $1,800,000 goes directly to refugees. So thank you, Jerome and Sa’id, for your work and inspiration.humansofny(2/2) “There were no jobs during the civil war, so my dad went from being an engineer to selling food. We had a shop in the main market of Mogadishu and during the day I helped him run the business. One morning I stepped outside to take a phone call, and a mortar hit our building. Twelve people were killed on the spot. I fell down in the middle of the road. My right thigh was broken. For ten minutes I lay in the street because everyone was too scared to get me. When I finally got to the hospital, it was chaos. There was no electricity. There were people in the hallways with their stomachs open. Doctors and nurses were making quick decisions without a second thought. I heard someone say to just cut off my leg. But there was an American surgeon from Los Angeles in that hospital. His name was Oscar. He had come to Somalia just to save lives. And under the most difficult circumstances he operated on my leg. He was like a miracle. I knew that God had saved me for a reason. I too was going to be a humanitarian.” ---------------------------------------
I’m ending the Rohingya series by sharing the story of Sa'id, who is helping oversee the construction project we are helping to fund. (We’ve raised over $1.5 million so far, which is enough to build over 2,500 houses.) Sai’d works with the American Refugee Commitee, who is partnering with Love Army to provide logistical and organizational support. As is evident from his story, this work is very personal to Sa’id because he is a refugee himself. Today is the final day of our fundraiser. We’re almost up to 30,000 donors. If we reach $1.8 million, that will be 3000 houses. *Those houses can hold 15,000 people.* Every little bit matters, so please consider donating: LINK IN BIOhumansofny“I was twenty when the civil war came to Somalia. It started as a normal day for me. I woke up that morning thinking about applying to university. Suddenly I heard big sounds like cannon in the distance. Then came the sounds of gunfire. The fighting spread so fast. By that afternoon I saw two dead bodies in the street. I had never seen a dead person in my life. My neighborhood became a battleground, but we couldn’t leave because there was no transportation. There was no water or electricity. The ATM’s wouldn’t work. Mortars began to fall near our house so we took shelter in a nearby school. I remember that first night, sleeping on the floor of the school, listening to the BBC Somali service on a handheld radio. I had no idea what was happening. In just a few hours my life had gone from thinking about college to only thinking about surviving.” (1/2)
---------------------------------------
I’m ending the Rohingya series by sharing the story of Sa'id, who is helping oversee the construction project we are helping to fund. (We’ve raised over $1.5 million so far, which is enough to build over 2,500 houses.) Sai’d works with the American Refugee Commitee, who is partnering with Love Army to provide logistical and organizational support. As is evident from his story, this work is very personal to Sa’id because he is a refugee himself. Today is the final day of our fundraiser. We’re almost up to 30,000 donors. If we reach $1.8 million, that will be 3000 houses. *Those houses can hold 15,000 people.” Every little bit matters, so please consider donating: LINK IN BIOhumansofny“My parents fled Myanmar twenty-five years ago, so I was born in these camps. I feel like a prisoner here. I don’t have any rights. The only thing that refugees are allowed to do is exist. It’s not legal for us to study. It’s not legal for us to work. Even if I earned a PhD, I wouldn’t be able to get a job in Bangladesh. But we can’t go home. The only thing worse than being here is going back to Myanmar. Some of my family decided to stay in Myanmar. A few months ago I got a call from my cousin in the middle of the night. He told me: ‘Pray for us. We are going to die. I am watching everyone die and there’s nothing I can do.’ I told him that we’d pray for him. I could hear gunshots in the background. And then he hung up. A few weeks later he arrived alone in the camp. He told us that fifty of our relatives were killed that night. He was the only one who escaped.” ---------------------------------------------**One day left for our fundraiser.** This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by the military and Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for nearly 2000 houses so far, but the need is much more. There’s only one day left in our campaign, so please consider donating: LINK IN BIOhumansofny“The military arrested a leader of our village and took him out into the forest. The next morning, we broke into small groups and everyone went searching for him. I went with two of my friends. We were searching in the forest when I heard one of them scream. I ran over to see what he found. It was the man we were looking for, but his neck had been cut.”
-----------------------------------------
This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by the military and Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for nearly 2000 houses so far, but the need is much more. Please consider donating: LINK IN BIOhumansofny“It was 2 AM when they came to our village. They set all our houses on fire. There was no time to grab anything. Not even food. All we could do was run. For fifteen days we walked without any food. There were bodies all along the path. Only fear kept us going. We had no energy. People were sitting down to rest and never standing up again. We started eating leaves off the trees. I couldn’t breastfeed anymore. One of my children died on the sixth day. Another died a few days later. Nobody even talked about it. We were too weak. I could barely even cry. We just walked on in silence. When we arrived at the camps, the doctor told me my baby was not going to survive. But by the grace of Allah, she lived.”
-----------------------------------------------
This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for over 1000 houses so far, but the need is much more. Please consider donating: LINK IN BIOhumansofny“I was walking home from the paddy fields when I heard the sound of a bullet. A young boy fell right next to me. Then suddenly there were so many bullets that it seemed like rain. I ran straight to my house and told my family to run. I told them to run deep into the forest and I started grabbing everything I could. I tried to follow them but it was raining too hard. I kept losing my balance because I was carrying our bags. It took me an hour to find them. I was screaming their names like a madman. Finally I discovered tracks in the mud and found my children huddled in the woods, but my wife was not with them. Nobody knew where she was. It was too dangerous to stay so we had to keep moving. We walked for three days without food and water. The children kept asking for their mother, but I didn’t know what to tell them. I thought we had lost her forever. Finally on the fourth day someone told us they’d passed her on the road. They said she was alone and crying. We were starving and didn’t have the energy to go back. But our nephew volunteered to find her, and tell her that we’d meet her in Bangladesh.”
----------------------------------------
This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for over 1000 houses so far, but the need is much more. Please consider donating: LINK IN BIOhumansofny“They came to our house first because it’s closest to the road. We thought they just wanted to talk. We thought they’d ask us some questions, and then they’d leave. So we walked out to meet them. I smelled smoke as soon as I walked outside. And they started shooting their guns. There was no time to go back. They were shooting so I couldn’t go back. And I couldn’t bring anything with me. I just ran into the forest with my children. And I forgot my baby boy. I left him in the house because I thought we were coming right back. I wanted to save him but my husband held me down. So my baby burned in the house. I’d have brought him with me, but I thought we were coming right back.”
----------------------------------------
This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for over 1000 houses so far, but the need is much more. Please consider donating: LINK IN BIO.humansofny“I looked out my window and saw smoke coming from the village across the river. At first I thought it was a casual fire. But then I heard shooting, and I saw people were trying to swim across the river. We knew that our village would be next. I grabbed what I could carry and ran toward the mountain. We hid in the bushes all day. There were thousands of us on that mountain. Anyone who tried to talk was shushed. We looked down on our village and watched them burn our houses. Before they burned mine, they carried everything out. They took all my furniture. They took two hundred bags of lentils. I’m a schoolteacher, but I owned a lot of farmland. I paid taxes on my land for decades. I have all my paperwork. I have all my receipts. But they took it all from me. I wasn’t able to bring a single grain of rice with me. These papers are all I have. They are worthless now. But my hope is that one day they’ll have value again.” ---------------------------------------
This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for nearly 1000 so far. Please consider donating: LINK IN BIOhumansofny"Nobody was prepared for this. There are now 700,000 people trying to figure out how to survive in the middle of nowhere. A few months ago, this entire area was a national forest reserve. It was covered with trees. But the refugees had nothing when they arrived, so they started cutting the trees for fuel. Then they moved on to shrubs. Now they’ve dug up all the roots so there’s nothing left but loose soil. It’s too dangerous for them to go home so we’re trying to make the best of the situation. Almost all the refugees are living in plastic tents right now. They’re extremely vulnerable. So we’ve designed sturdy bamboo houses and we’re building them as fast as we can. We want to finish as many as possible before the monsoon season arrives."
------------------------------------------
This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. Alongside these stories, we’ll meet a few of the wonderful people who are working to make the situation better. This is Immad-- a construction coordinator for the humanitarian organization OBAT Helpers. Immad is a hero of our tale because he designed the bamboo houses that we are currently raising money to build. Our campaign has raised over $500,000 so far. That’s enough to build nearly 800 houses. Because each house can hold a family of six, that’s enough to shelter nearly 5,000 people. A pretty remarkable achievement, but there are still nearly a million refugees without homes. So if you haven’t already, please consider donating: LINK IN BIOhumansofny“They didn’t say a word. They just started firing into the air and lighting our houses on fire. The burning began on the north side of our village, so we fled south into the forest. We walked all night through the dark. I could hear people in the forest all around me. We were too afraid to rest. When the sun began to rise, everyone panicked and started to run. I noticed two children leaning against a tree. Both of them were crying. The boy said nothing. The girl would only tell me that her mother had been killed. When I asked if they wanted to come with me, they nodded ‘yes.’ I’m taking care of them the best I can, but it’s difficult because I already have a large family. I think they are happier now. The girl has made some friends in camp. But she still keeps asking about her mother.” ----------------------------------------------------- This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for over 400 so far. Please consider donating: LINK IN BIO.humansofny“It’s been happening since our grandparents’ time. We haven’t had a day of peace. Every night the military would knock on our door and demand that we give them sheep or goats. The police would stop us on the way to market and arrest us for no reason. Just for being Muslim. They’d take us to the police station and make us clean the toilets. If you asked ‘why,’ you’d be beaten. On the night they came to burn our village, we barely survived. The bullets came through our walls all night. My brother was shot in the stomach. I thought any moment would be the end. At first light I put my daughter on my shoulder and started to run. There were pieces of people all over the road. Every time I passed a dead body, I would switch her to the other shoulder.”
---------------------------------------
This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for them. (Almost all the refugees are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for almost 300 so far.
Please consider donating: LINK IN BIOhumansofny“It was early in the morning when the military came. I woke up to a big sound that sounded like a bomb blast. Then the shooting started and everyone was screaming. We ran for our lives. It was dark and there were people running all around us. It only took us thirty minutes to get to safety because our village is close to the border. But then some of us decided to go back. There were five of us. We were curious. We wanted to see what happened to the others. We crawled on our stomachs to the top of a hill, and looked down at our village. There were so many dead bodies. Some of them were my cousins. I saw a girl from school with three soldiers kneeling on top of her. They were covering her mouth so she wouldn’t scream. I felt so dizzy. I couldn’t stand up. I used to have a dream that I was going to grow up and help my family. I was studying hard. Now I don’t even know why I’d want to live in this world.” ----------------------------------------------------- This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. We’ve raised enough for 30 houses so far. Please consider donating: LINK IN BIOhumansofnyDuring my recent trip to Bangladesh, I spent several days outside of Cox’s Bazaar, where hundreds of thousands of Rohingya refugees have settled into camps. I’ll be sharing some of their stories over the next week. The situation is quite dire and many of the stories will be tough to read. But during this time, we’ll be having a fundraiser to impact the lives of refugees in a direct way—by building sturdy homes before the monsoon season arrives. I’ll be explaining more about the fundraiser throughout the series, but you can find the link in bio.

Hopefully as we spend the next week learning the stories of these refugees, we can also play a small part in softening their hardships.humansofny“I was tired of renting a room. It was so much pressure. Every month would pass by so quickly and the landlord would be knocking on my door again. If I didn’t have the money, he would knock every day. I couldn’t take the stress. I just wanted a place where I could relax. So I saved for two years to buy a house in the slum. It wasn’t a legal house because it was built on government land, but it was all I could afford. I tried to make it nice. I gathered scrap wood and created an extra room. I built my own bathroom. I slept so well there. Nothing was burdening me. Then one day I got a letter on my door. Everyone in our slum got the same letter. It said we needed to leave because the government was planning to build a road on the land. Armed guards came the next morning and bulldozed all our houses. That was three years ago. They still haven’t built the road.” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“This is my older sister’s business. I’m just helping her out. I barely knew her for most of my life. We come from a village, and she moved to the city when I was a baby. She supported our whole family. Everyone depended on her. She sent us money every month, but I barely knew her. I only spoke to her on the phone. A few years ago I followed in her footsteps and moved to Jakarta, and now we’ve become very close. I can finally witness the sacrifices that she’s made for us. She works all the time. She owns this small restaurant and runs a furniture business out of her home. Even though she’s a woman, she does all the marketing and negotiating herself. She wakes up early in the morning to search for wood in torn out buildings. When she comes home at night, her body is so tired that she goes directly to sleep. I want to become like her so she can rest. But I’m afraid I’m too naïve. When I watch her, I feel like she can do anything.” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“We must teach religion in our schools. We must start them really, really young. As soon as they know how to point out basic things like ‘rock, milk, tree.’ That is the best time to start. Not too much. Just one hour a day until they are about seven. Enough to teach them the basic prayers and Arabic alphabet. It has to be compulsory. You don’t have to force them to believe. But you must force them to study. It’s the most important thing in life. All of us have animal thoughts and lust. Only with God do you start having rules. Even the Christians have rules. I have a Christian relative. They pray to God as well. And the Hindus, well I don’t really understand Hinduism, but they have something too. You must have a higher power. When a man lives without God, it’s very dangerous. You have no reference, no principles, no precepts. You are almost equal to animal.” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“He had a heart attack at the office. He was only forty years old. We’d left the house together that morning, but he never came home. I was in shock. They told me to cry but I couldn’t. I lost so much weight. My children were still so young and I knew I’d have to fight alone. I’d let my husband pamper me for my entire life. We were always together. There were so many things I didn’t understand because he’d taken care of everything. He’d always driven us everywhere. I’d fall asleep in the car the moment we got on the highway. So I had to learn to read maps, and figure out directions, and how to wait for the bus. It made me so nervous when the crowd started pushing, but I learned to push too. I learned to go to the pharmacy and wait in line. It seems so simple, but my husband had always been the one who went to the pharmacy. I had to teach myself all these things. But God made it easy for me. The time has passed so fast. I supported us by working as a teacher and I’ve educated both my children. Now they’re teachers themselves. And my daughter is getting married this Saturday. My son is going to walk her down the aisle.” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“We were married for three years. But my parents never approved of her. They didn’t think she was good enough. They always told me: ‘You can date her, but don’t marry her.’ And she didn’t like them either. She didn’t like to be around them because she always felt judged. Things really got bad after our daughter was born. She didn’t want to live in my hometown. She didn’t come along when I went home to visit. We got in a huge fight about it one day. I started saying bad words to her, and eventually I said: ‘Let’s just end it.’ It was an emotional decision. We have three types of divorces in our religion-- and I chose the most final. Which means we are never allowed to remarry. Afterwards it felt like a dream. I shouldn’t have acted so quickly. I spoke with her recently and both of us regret the decision. My daughter barely recognizes me when I visit. But what can we do? We can’t go against the rules of God.” (Jakarta Indonesia)humansofny“My mother lost her eyesight slowly. At first her eyes began to change colors. The doctor told us that she needed a surgery, and I promised her I’d get the money. It was my dream to save her eyesight. I did some repair work. I helped our neighbors with construction projects. But I ran out of time and she went completely blind. Soon afterwards she fell very sick. She had to stay in bed for months. I was always there by her side. Even if there were a lot of people at home, she only felt at peace if I was next to her. I cleaned her. I fed her. I put my number on speed dial so she could call me at work. Toward the end she began to imagine things. My family thought she was losing her mind, but I think she was just lonely in the dark. She told me that she saw children. She told me there were princes coming for her. I’d sit and talk with her about the things she saw. I kept talking to her after she fell into a coma. I prayed with her. I asked her to forgive my father. I asked her to forgive me for not saving her eyesight. I didn’t have the money. But I gave her all that I could, which was my service.” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“My daughter was about to graduate high school when I lost my husband to a motorbike accident. She wanted to go to university but there was no one to support us. I’m an old-fashioned person. I’m not very smart. I only graduated from junior high school. But I wanted her to be better than me. I asked our relatives for help, but they all refused me. Out of desperation I approached my landlord. And she was the only one who supported us. She told me: ‘Get back on your feet so your daughter will have a chance.’ She loaned us half the tuition. The other half I earned by working morning to night. I was doing laundry. I was doing dishwashing. I was going around selling cookies and cakes. My daughter graduated recently and became a midwife. All my hard work paid off. We’ve been paying back the loan. And a few months ago she asked for my bank account number, and she’s been putting money in every week.” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“I feel like God has given me a talent for art, and using that talent is a form of gratitude. For years I worked in an automotive workshop. I’d try to paint when I came home, but I never had any energy left. So I finally quit. Now I have more freedom to develop my talents, but it hasn’t been easy. Art is more difficult in this country. It’s not really seen as a profession. It would be easier if I was alone, but I have a family to support so there’s a lot of pressure to earn. I’m trying to be tough in poverty. I read a lot of poetry to give me strength. I would never beg, so right now I’m drawing portraits and caricatures to support myself. I’d rather be painting what I think and feel, but I have to fulfill what the consumer wants.” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“Mom raised me on her own since I was young. My dad didn’t care about our family. He was there physically, but he wasn’t there. He kept all his income for himself. He gambled away our possessions. We couldn’t buy anything for ourselves because he would sell it. He sold all our electronics. He even sold our furniture. But my mother still did everything for him: cooked his food, did his laundry… everything. Then one day she came home from work and the house was empty. There was nothing left but our clothes. I told her it was time to go. For the last two years we’ve been living in a rented house together. Mom seems so much lighter now. We can own our own things. We can actually make progress and move forward in life. I've started working at a pharmacy and I'm paying my way through college. I’m still in touch with my father. I even give him money for rent and food. I have no interest in taking revenge. I’m showing him how he should have treated us.” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“I’m a fund manager. One of my employees stole millions from my clients. He hid it from me for almost two years. He was working with a broker to create fake transactions. He disappeared when I discovered the scheme. I could call the police but it would be all over the press, and I’d never get another client. I could declare bankruptcy but I’m not a coward. So I’m trying to pay my clients back the initial amount they invested. I sold my other business. I sold two houses and a car. That’s why I’m taking trains and online taxis. Some of my clients feel sorry for me. Most of them are angry. A few hate me. All of them keep calling. I tell them to give me time, but they keep calling. I’m smoking four packs of cigarettes a day because of the stress. I’ve got to find fresh money. If I can get new clients, then I can slowly repay the old ones with the profits that I make. But all of them want their money now.” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“Several years ago my father used our house for collateral on a business loan. When things fell apart, we lost everything. My dad got depressed and fell sick. My mother was backed into a corner. She had four young children but no income. At the time she was a very feminine housewife. But she asked our neighbors to teach her how to farm. Then she convinced our landlord to let her plant an empty field. He told her, ‘If you can make it yield anything, we’ll split the profits.’ It didn’t succeed right away. There were a lot of pests. Some of the crops dried out. But my mother harvested whatever was left, and it was enough to support our family. She cut off her hair during this time. She got very muscular. She worked all day in the fields but still found time to make sure we went to school. If my brothers and I ever started crying, she’d tell us: ‘If I’m strong enough to do this, you’re strong enough to go to school.’” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“I tried to pick my wife up from her religious group one night, but her friends told me that she’d left with someone else. She told me the guy was just a friend. But over the next few months, I started to hear more and more things. Somebody saw her coming out of a hotel with another man. Then a few weeks later I discovered them on a beach together. Then finally I came home early one day and found them in my house. I was heartbroken. Because I really did love her. I left town immediately after the divorce because I didn’t want to be reminded of the heartbreak. I’ve lived in Jakarta for three years now. I have my own shop. I’ve saved a lot of money. I’m doing better than I ever have before. My plan was to become successful and win my wife back, but my daughter tells me that she’s already remarried. So I’m hoping to meet someone else. One of my customers was left by her husband. She also has older children. We’ve been talking on the phone a lot lately.” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“We were planning to swim today but then we decided to go looking for foreigners. Rayhan had never seen one before. Foreigners are fun and handsome. If you get a picture with one of them, you’ll get a lot of likes on Facebook. We found a few already. There was one family from France that was really nice and let us a take a picture. Then we found one other girl but she was kind of snobby. She said some words in English and walked away quickly. Maybe she was feeling sick.” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“It was spontaneous. I didn’t ask for permission. We’d been dating for five months, so I just decided to go for it. We were standing on a beach. Watching the sunset. I waited for the perfect moment when she wasn’t paying attention. Then I leaned in and kissed her on the cheek. At first she was silent. She gave me a bit of a side look. I thought I’d messed up. So I pointed at the waves and pretended that I saw something in the ocean. I let things cool down for a few months before trying again.” (Jakarta, Indonesia)humansofny“I tried to start a business right out of high school. I didn’t have much experience. But a mutual friend showed me a business model and I agreed to partner with him. We supplied wholesale groceries like onions, barley, and garlic. My partner did the purchasing and kept all the books. I just supplied the money to purchase more stock. I was completely dependent on the information he gave me. And at first we showed a lot of profit. Every time we filled an order, there would be an even bigger order. So I just kept putting more money into the business. That went on for four years. But when I finally tried to take some profits, my partner claimed there was no money. He showed me an entirely new set of books. He’d stolen everything, and I couldn’t prove a thing because I hadn’t been keeping my own records. I hid it from my wife for days. We had two kids and I’d just lost everything. But when I finally told her, she supported me. She only told me that I couldn’t sit around and think about it. So I got a job as a taxi driver. I was done with business forever. That was twenty years ago. Both my kids are educated now. They’ve grown up to be good human beings. And that guy never changed. He kept cheating people. Last I heard, he was in hiding somewhere.” (Dhaka, Bangladesh)humansofny“These types of shops are notorious for cheating people. A lot of them use fake parts to fix your car. But I take pride in doing things right. And most of my profits go back into the business. I could stash all my money in the bank, but I’d rather use it to create jobs. I support five employees with this shop. I handpicked them myself. All of them were being paid horribly at their old jobs. They were living in horrible conditions. They had families to support but were barely making enough to feed themselves. So I paid them double, gave them shelter, and gave them food. If the work is getting done, they can have as much freedom as they want. I don’t give them metrics. The most important thing is that they’re happy.” (Dhaka, Bangladesh)humansofny“The land where I grew up was very rich. The property was empty when my father bought it, but he plowed it with cows and grew many crops there. He built it up from nothing. I have many memories there as a child. The land was next to a river. There were lots of coconut trees. The trees didn’t belong to anyone but they felt like my own. My father died when I was five years old and passed the land on to me. It was my only possession. It was my back-up plan. I worked as a janitor in the city, but I always returned to visit my mother and bring her money. It was in my twenties that I began to notice that the river was eroding the soil. Every time I returned, a bit more had fallen into the water. There was nothing I could do. We stayed until the water was five feet from our door. On the day we left, my mother told me: ‘One day you’ll realize how hard your father worked for this.’ And that’s the hardest part. The land was my only memory of my father. And now I can’t show it to my kids. I feel like it’s not just my inheritance that’s underwater, but all my father’s hard work.” (Dhaka, Bangladesh)humansofny“My mother passed away during childbirth, and a woman from a nearby village tried to purchase me from my grandfather. At first he was insulted, but the woman kept begging, so he finally agreed to marry her into our family. She never breastfed me. She never showed me affection. And the moment she had children of her own, she abandoned me. I was ten years old at the time. Her new husband threw my school bag into a lake and told me to go find work. I moved straight to the city. There were times I was so hungry that I made soup out of goat food. But I never begged and I never stole. There are a lot of bad people in the city, but I was lucky enough to meet the good ones. People who showed me the right path. A restaurant owner let me live with him in exchange for washing dishes. Then when I was fifteen, an old Pakistani man taught me how to drive, and I became a bus driver. I met my wife while driving that bus. We have three children of our own now. I have nothing to leave them when I’m gone. But all of us are well fed and well housed.” (Dhaka, Bangladesh)humansofny“My boyfriend would do all sorts of crazy things when we first met. We’d talk until four in the morning. He said he’d die to be with me. But the moment he knew that I was falling for him, he suddenly grew cold. He’d call me names. He’d disappear for days every time we argued. And he started spending time with other girls. He said they were just friends, but it bothered me. Plus he would never commit. I asked him for a commitment because my parents are trying to fix my marriage, but he just listened to me cry. He wouldn’t say a word. During one of the periods that he wasn’t talking to me, I reconnected with an old crush from my childhood. And this new guy treated me so well. He even came to meet my parents to show that he was serious. But my boyfriend logged onto my Facebook and discovered our messages. And he started crying and begged me not to leave. He said he’d marry me if I came back to him. So I did. But now he’s saying that he hasn’t decided if he can forgive me.” (Dhaka, Bangladesh)humansofny“I feel like girls aren’t safe anywhere. Maybe I’m watching too many crime series on television, but I’m scared to ever leave her alone. I even get nervous when she goes to school because the driver is male. I do my best to teach her to be safe. I tell her how to react if a man approaches her. I tell her what is not appropriate. But she’s so shy. She’s silent around adults. So I’m scared that she won’t stand up for herself. And that if something happens, I’m afraid she’ll never tell me about it.” (Dhaka, Bangladesh)humansofny“Invention is my hobby. I want to invent all kinds of inventions. Many things I have invented already. This is my first invention, which is quite small. It is a generator. One motor can generate electricity from the other motor. I will make a bigger one when I get some money. There are so many wonderful inventors. There is a scientist named Dr. Hanson who has made a wonderful robot that can talk. She can’t say her favorite color, but she is still a beautiful robot. Dr. Hanson is a great scientist and wonderful man. I will be a great scientist too. One day I will go to Australia and make a flying car that doesn’t make pollution. I already have the idea in my brain.” (Dhaka, Bangladesh)humansofny“I started this business two years ago when I was twelve. An older friend told me that we could make good money selling fruit. We buy the fruit from villages and bring it to the city where it gets a much higher price. My friend is six years older than me, but he couldn’t keep up, so I set off on my own. I work every day. I’ve already made enough money to buy some land. I’m going to build a house and use the rest for farming. My parents tell me that I should be in school. I respect their views, but I also make more money than them. So it’s hard to listen. Plus I’m learning a lot about business. Even though I’m skipping school, I don’t think I’m skipping education.” (Dhaka, Bangladesh)humansofny“I always sat in the first row. I always had the highest rank in class. I wanted to be a teacher, just like my teachers. But when it was time to enroll in grade seven, my mother told me we couldn’t afford it. I cried and begged but she just stayed silent. My teachers were so sad that they offered to pay half of the tuition. But it wasn’t enough because we'd still have to pay for the books and exams. So my mother made me understand that school was not in my luck. I’m still seventeen, but now I’m married and I work as a maid for a family. I wash their clothes, wash their dishes, clean their bathroom. Their house is near a school. So every morning I have to watch the children walk by in their uniforms.” (Dhaka, Bangladesh) [*Im getting lots of messages from people wanting to help. A few days ago I got in touch with her family about paying tuition, and looks promising that we'll be able to get her back in school*]humansofny“My husband passed away when my children were very small. I taught myself handicrafts to survive, but it barely earned enough for us to eat. When my oldest son turned eighteen, I found him a wife. I was hoping that she’d help with the household. But she abandoned us after my granddaughter was born. I came home from work one day and found the child alone. I could only get her to stop crying by soaking an apple in goat’s milk. I’ve been raising her ever since that day. She calls me ‘mummy.’ With a lot of hardships I have made her grow. She survives on apples and milk. But I’m old. And when I’m gone, I don’t know who will take care of her.” (Udaipur, India)humansofnyToday in microfashion... (Calcutta, India)humansofny“I want to be a police. I’ll find the robbers because they have handkerchiefs on their faces. I’ll tell them that it’s bad to steal. And to never steal again. Then I’ll hit them with a stick and their mom and dad will yell at them. And if they don’t listen, I’ll hit them with a stick again.” (Udaipur, India)humansofny“I’m known for my honesty. My grandfather taught me that it’s better to carry rocks on your head than to make a dishonest living. I’ve never taken a bribe. I’ve worked in the judicial court for decades and have been offered all sorts of money and gifts. A hospital once offered me an entire floor of their building, if only I’d settle a dispute in their favor. I told them to take it up with someone else.” (Udaipur, India)humansofny“After we met, I got tired of waiting for him to call. So I dialed his number, let it ring once, and hung up. When he called back I told him it was an accident. Then we spoke for an hour. Now we’re on our honeymoon.” (Udaipur, India)humansofny“We’re from different castes so we have to meet in secret. My parents would never approve. When my older sister married someone outside of the caste, everyone stopped talking to her. So we have to be careful. My parents actually know about him. He sent me a bunch of heart emojis once and my Mom picked up the phone. I tried to say we were just friends but she saw the words ‘Darling’ and ‘Sweetheart.’ She slapped me when she saw it. She thinks that we don’t talk anymore. When I’m financially independent, I’ll finally tell her the truth. But it’s going to be bad.” -Calcutta, Indiahumansofny“I want to do something for our nation. At first I wanted to be a doctor, but I discovered another path to saving lives. I’m studying agriculture now. I’d like to help invent new seeds to increase yields. Small farmers in India are struggling. They just can’t compete with industrial farms. Most of them live in isolated villages, and it costs too much to bring their goods to market. It can be cheaper for them to dump their crops on the side of the road. Meanwhile people in our country are going hungry! It doesn’t make any sense. But if we invent new seeds that increase the yield of their land, small farmers can survive. If I do my job well, there will be no need for doctors. Also my mom would like to see my name in the newspaper.” (Udaipur, India)humansofny“Marriage is about two things: sexual satisfaction and building generations. Nothing more. Only useless people are thinking about love. The result of a love marriage is never satisfactory. Divorce, arguments, affairs. These things don’t happen in arranged marriage. Arranged marriage is always successful. Love is for useless people. But if you’re going to feel love, at the very least, make sure it’s someone of a similar income level.” (Jaipur, India)humansofny“We have to keep our relationship secret. Our parents would not approve and we’re not courageous enough to tell them yet. So we meet in secret three or four times per month. Since the beginning of our relationship, we’ve shared a diary. We take turns keeping it. Whoever has it will write down our memories. They’ll also write down what they want from the other person, and how they feel misunderstood. Then every time we meet—we hand it off.” (Calcutta, India)humansofny“I used to drink beer every once in awhile. That was all. But several members of my family died in a few years time. The worst was my brother. He was younger than me. And after his death I lost all control. Now I can’t stop drinking. I’ll quit for a few weeks at a time, but then I’ll get this feeling: ‘Let me have a little bit today.’ Then I’ll drink continuously for five or six days until the shivers kick in. It’s ruining my health. It’s causing me to neglect my work. My family is ashamed. And I live with a constant feeling of doing wrong. But I can’t stop. And even if I did, I feel like I’m too old and it’s too late.” (Jaipur, India)humansofny“I came to the city when I was twenty and became a fruit seller. It’s allowed me to build a house in my village. I feel healthy. I get to eat. A lot of people don’t get to eat on time. So I’ve gotten everything I wanted. The minute you think: ‘I have a lot’—that’s the moment your spirit is at rest. My spirit is at rest.” (Jaipur, India)humansofny“One night there was a huge storm and he didn’t come home from work. I had told him to sleep at the shop, but he wouldn’t listen to me. And by nighttime he still hadn’t arrived. The trains shut down. The phones stopped working. I sat by the window all night with my children. I asked everyone who walked by if they’d seen him. The next morning I went to the temple and said so many prayers. Then at 11 AM, I heard the bell ring. And there he was. He was soaking wet and completely covered in mud. He smelled awful. I started crying so hard. I made him some hot tea and a little food, and he went straight to bed. When he finally woke up, I informed him that he would be moving his shop next to the house.” (Mumbai, India)humansofny“I sell grain for people to feed the pigeons and cows. It’s a way to get good karma. This has been our family’s business for eighty years. It began with my grandfather, then my father, and now it’s mine. I have about 250 or 300 clients that I see every day. Things were going very well. We had two houses. A car. Lots of gold. But a few years ago my brother-in-law got kidney disease. Our family spent everything to save him. We travelled all over India. People said: ‘go here, go there,’ and we always went. And we always paid whatever they asked. My mother even donated her kidney. But nothing worked. He died seven months ago. My parents passed away soon after because of the stress. Now I’m all alone. I own nothing but a scooter. I still believe in karma. Without it I have nothing left. But only God knows what I did to deserve this. If I knew, I wouldn’t have done it.” (Jaipur, India)humansofny“I don’t want her to depend on anyone when she grows up. From the very beginning, I’ve been dependent. I barely left my home until the age of eighteen. I'd only walk from school to home, and even then I’d be accompanied by my brother. I had no idea how to face the world outside. I never even learned to ride a bike. It’s going to be different for her. I told my husband: ‘Whatever she wants to do, I’m going to support her.’ And I’ve already gotten a bike for her. The moment she is old enough, I’m teaching her to ride a bike.” (Jaipur, India)humansofny"We let her pick the kite." (Udaipur, India)humansofny“We moved to the city thirty years ago when I was a small child. We hardly had a penny at the time. My father sacrificed everything for us. If I needed new clothes, he’d wear old clothes. And he never complained. If business wasn’t good, he’d keep it to himself so we wouldn’t have to worry. Once when I was twelve years old, I really wanted a bicycle. So he bought one for me. Shortly after that, I noticed that he wasn’t wearing his favorite ring. He told me that he was getting it fixed. When I became an adult, I asked him again: ‘Where is that ring? I want to make one just like it.’ Finally he told me: ‘I sold that ring to get your bicycle.’” (Jaipur, India)humansofnyToday in microfashion... (Mumbai, India)humansofny“The only time they’re peaceful is when they’re watching cartoons. They argue over everything. They fight over toys. They call each other names. But as much as they fight, they also can’t live without each other. Anytime I try to separate them, two minutes later they’re talking again.” (Jaipur, India)humansofny“My wife passed away last month. She started shivering when she came out of the bath, and then she fainted. I took her to the hospital but she had a heart attack before I could admit her. I’m trying to stay busy. I’m OK when I’m at work, but the minute I enter my home, I begin to think about her. Her photographs are still by my bedside. Thankfully my ten-year-old grandson has been sleeping with me. He watches my shows with me. And he talks constantly. He goes on about his school and his class and his teachers. A lot of what he says is nonsense, but I enjoy it. And when he falls asleep, I fall asleep.” (Jaipur, India)humansofny“I came to the city when I was twenty-one because I wanted to meet my favorite actor. I thought that I’d wait outside his apartment, and he’d appear shirtless on his balcony just like in the Bollywood movies. But he never came out. I didn’t want to go home without meeting him because all my friends would laugh at me. So I slept on the streets. I had no money to survive. I began working at a bookstall just so I could eat. And every day after work I’d return to his house to see if I could find him. I finally got my chance when there was a big movie premiere. I knew he’d be there. I waited along the rope line and met all of the other actors. But when my favorite arrived, he walked past without greeting anyone. He didn’t even make eye contact. I was heartbroken. He didn’t even acknowledge his fans. At least now I have a bookshop. I can thank him for that.” (Mumbai, India)humansofny"I love that she loves love." (Jaipur, India)humansofny“My sons used to protect me from my husband. He’s an alcoholic and he becomes violent when he drinks. He beat me so bad once that it injured my spine. My sons used to stand beside me. They’d try to stop it. They’d scream at him not to hit me. Then afterward they’d comfort me. But they’re teenagers now and they’re starting to go down the same path. They stay out drinking until 3 AM. I can’t get them to wake up in the morning. Today they got in a fight and one of them punched his fist through a window. There was blood everywhere. I came out here to calm down but my hands are still shivering. I don’t know what to do. I ask them to stop drinking but they won’t listen. There’s nothing left for me. I gave them life, I guess that’s all I can do.” (Mumbai, India)humansofny“I didn’t get accepted into any of the universities that I wanted, and I ended up going to a lesser quality school. I hated being there. On the first day, I thought about buying a plane ticket and going home. I felt like I had nothing in common with the people around me. I felt like they belonged and I didn’t. My plan was just to survive-- get through six lectures a day, keep to myself, and get back to my dorm room as soon as possible. I didn’t even talk to my own roommate. I’m ashamed of it now. I was so rude and self-centered, and it ended up making me lonely and miserable. I felt depressed. I was barely sleeping. Then one night I overheard my roommate talking on the phone with her mother. And I could tell she was having family problems. After she hung up, we stayed up all night talking. I told her that I was having a hard time too. She became my best friend after that night. We’d have dinner together. Whenever I left the room, she’d ask me where I was going. It felt so good to have someone worry about me. It’s been an important six months for me. I’ve realized how much I need other people. By not valuing the people around me, I was only hurting myself.” (Mumbai, India)humansofny"I'm trying to live my life without conflict so I don't say much." (Mumbai, India)humansofny“I was a full time housewife. I kept mostly to myself. I was a very shy person. Then one year a local school asked if I could volunteer to teach art to the children. Just one hour every day. I did such a good job that the next year they asked me to teach full time. My husband didn’t want me to do it. He said: ‘You told me it would just be one hour.” But I told him: ‘I listened to you for twenty-five years, now it’s my turn to take the reins.’ I ended up teaching for fifteen years. I built such a good reputation that children came from other schools to join my class. The whole school threw a party when I retired. The children sang songs and danced. It just made me feel so special. Teaching was the best decision I ever made. Now I feel like I’ve done something positive with my life.” (Mumbai, India)humansofny"I don't know how old I am." (Mumbai, India)humansofny“I resented my mother for the longest time. She was always affectionate. There’s nothing mean-spirited about her. But she has some sort of condition. I used to be embarrassed to bring friends over. She was always fidgeting. She couldn’t sit still. There were a lot of monologues, and often they didn’t make any sense. When I was young I didn’t realize it was mental illness. Especially because the subject is taboo in India. So I’d just get angry with her. I’d victimize myself and blame her for everything. But I’m older now, so I’m trying to be more patient. I’ve met a lot of people who don’t even have mothers. So I’ve stopped fighting it. I don’t nag her. I hug her more. And I listen to her, even if she doesn’t always make sense.” (Mumbai, India)humansofny"My mom made me a birthday dress!"humansofny“When I was a child, it was up to me to feed our family because my father couldn't work. I had a job at a motorcycle repair shop. Everyone would sit at home and wait for me to make money. Once we almost ran out of food. We didn’t have a single rupee and there was nothing to eat. I could handle it, but I couldn’t bear the thought of my baby sister going to sleep hungry. I sat at my shop all day, praying for a customer. But nobody came. Then just as night was falling, a man drove up with a puncture in his tire. The price of the repair was three rupees. But when I was finished, the man handed me twenty rupees and drove away. I was able to buy two kilograms of rice. My entire life turned around that day. My shop became very busy. We were never hungry again. Even today I think about that man. I never saw his face. He changed not just my life, but the lives of my entire family. I wonder who he was. Sometimes I think it was God himself.” (Mumbai, India)humansofny“I have a big book about tiger conservation, and I always knew that the ocean was in trouble. But I didn’t really become an environmentalist until I got to grade one. That’s when I thought of many interesting ways to help. Some things you can do are reduce waste, carpool more often, spread awareness, plant trees, not cut trees, cut carbon emissions, and reduce nuclear disposal. I’m too young to start nuclear disposal because it’s dangerous and I don’t have the proper gloves. But I do recycle and keep plants on my balcony.” (Mumbai, India)humansofny“My mother’s friends say that I’m just like her. She died of breast cancer when I was two years old. I had to grow up fast because my father was always working and seldom around. I was doing my own laundry at the age of seven. I figured the puberty thing out on my own. During high school, I’d leave for entire weekends without my dad even asking where I’d been. Then one year at Thanksgiving, my aunt told me that my mother had left me a letter and a video. She got so angry when I told her I’d never gotten it. I confronted my Dad about it, and he said that he ‘remembered something like that.’ He drove me to a safety deposit box—but the box was empty. He couldn’t remember what happened. He had one job. One thing that would mean more to me than anything else, and he couldn’t do it. My mom’s friends always tell me: ‘She would be so proud of you,’ or ‘She was so in love with you. But that’s not the same. It’s not the same as something directly from her. Something she made especially for me. Just one thing that actually says: ‘This is how much I love you.’”humansofny“I’m pretty sure I’m a sociopath. Or something close to it. My parents were pilots, so I spent most of my early childhood on a small island in Tunisia. The only other kids were the children of a local hotelkeeper. I was so isolated that I even invented my own words. By the time I got to high school, I was a monster. I only cared about being the best. I was a bully. I’d argue just for the sake of arguing. I would destroy any belief, just to be right. My behavior is different now. But I think I’m still a sociopath. I’m not sure I feel empathy. But I do always try to make the empathetic choice. It’s an intellectual thing for me. I’m intellectually convinced of the need for empathy. I choose to help other people. I choose to be a reliable friend. I have a wonderful wife who judges me by my actions, and not my reasons for them. Sometimes I feel like Pinocchio. Was he a real boy? Yes, because that’s what he always strived to be.”humansofny“I was late to the delivery room when she was born. But as soon as I walked in, her eyes started tracking me. Like she knew I was her Dad. Even the nurses were laughing about it. She’s always been my road dog. She never went through a ‘teenage phase.’ She never stopped wanting to spend time with me. We could always talk about the problems she was having at school. Even as she got older, we’d still go to the park on Saturdays or find some exotic place to eat in Brooklyn. It’s a little tough now that she’s away at college. I miss spending time with her. But I trust her completely and I want her to enjoy these years. I just hope that when she falls in love with some dude, I’ll still get to see her.”humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofny“Saturn is leaving Sagittarius and moving into Capricorn today. Things that may have been otherwise will now become reality. The time for talking and thinking is over. Now is the time to do.”humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofny“A really bad divorce triggered the first and only manic episode of my life. It was my body’s attempt to avoid feeling any pain. I was sleeping three hours a night and doing handstands in the morning. I did a whole lot of writing. I’m a contractor-- so I taught myself all sorts of plastering techniques and developed an entire series of finishes. I worked as a carpenter for twelve hours every day. Eventually I pushed myself to the point where I injured my shoulder, and the doctor told me that I couldn’t work anymore. It forced me to slow down, confront the illness, and make friends with that part of myself. Now I’m on a mood stabilizer. I’m not operating in a triggered state anymore. And I’m back to work, but this time with a team of people to help me carry the load.”humansofny“I'm still having trouble even saying the word 'divorce.' I had always planned on only being married once. And now I’m not. I’m getting older now, and I always wanted to be a Mom-- but I’m not. And that’s really hard. The house feels so empty. It still looks like two people live in it. I’m clocking my progress by the moments I’m not crying. And as long as I don’t think about any of these things-- I’m fine. My career is going great. I can choose to not think about it. But I’ve got to. I’ve got to ask myself: ‘What happens if he never apologizes?’ , ‘Will I be fine if he never make amends?’ I’d rather not think about this stuff because it hurts. But I know it’s the only way to move on. I can either think through it now, or I can carry it with me forever.”humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofny“My husband had a sudden heart attack a few months ago. It was just a few blocks from here. They called me in to identify his body and then just let me walk right out onto 7th Avenue. I felt so lost. My friends were wonderful and supportive but eventually everyone moves on with their lives. I don’t have children. And I’m not a workaholic. So I was left with this intense loneliness and void. I couldn’t eat. I couldn’t sleep. Then one day I started researching dogs that are good for grief and depression. And ‘poodle’ kept popping up. But when I went to the rescue fair, all the poodles were gone. There was this one old dog in the back that nobody was looking at. She was skin and bones. She was trembling and scared and mucus was running out of her eyes. She seemed so fragile. She reminded me of myself. I named her Grace because I think my husband sent her to me. She’s my first dog. She’s been pure joy. We spend all our time together. She’s gained her weight back. She comes with me to therapy. We’re getting better together.”humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofny“I grew up on a reservation because my father was Cherokee. The only thing he believed in was destroying things. When I was five years old, he sat me down on the couch and said: ‘You’re going to become a man the same way I did.’ First he made me smoke a Camel unfiltered cigarette. Then he gave me a shot of ‘corn stalk hooch.’ It’s liquor made from the silky stuff at the top of corn. Most adults can’t handle it, let alone a kid. It took me a whole day to finish. Every time I threw it up, he’d pour another one. My mistake was that I kept trying to smoke the cigarette first. You’ve got to drink the liquor first so it numbs your throat.”humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series are now available, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, featuring hundreds of interviews, are now available on Facebook Watch. Link in bio.humansofny“I moved to Havana after September 11th. I opened up the first English language bookstore. It’s been great, but living there has been a major challenge to my introversion. When I lived in New York, I could choose to not interact with people. But that’s not really an option in Cuba. Introversion isn’t really ‘a thing.’ If you’re alone, then something must be wrong. Birthdays are the worst. My friends make me have a party every year. I’ve got to have one slice of cake before I’m allowed to go home. And I have this 86-year-old neighbor named Terasita that always assumes I’m lonely and brings me fritters. I resisted at first because I really value my alone time. I’d lock the doors. I’d turn off the lights. But resistance is futile. They’re so persistent.”humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series are now available, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series are now available, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofny“I almost married my high school sweetheart. She was a sharp girl. Very kind. Long brown hair, slim-- the whole package. We moved to California together after graduation. We spent all our time together. We were in love. We even talked about marriage several times. Then one morning she decided she didn’t want to do it anymore. She told me things had changed. It destroyed me. Ever since then, she’s been the one that I’ve always wondered about. I actually saw her a couple years ago. She came to New York for her father’s funeral, and we took a walk in Central Park together. I hadn’t seen her in forty-five years. She looked amazing. Exactly the same as I remembered. She had two kids. She’d gotten married to some guy from Yale. Toward the end of our walk, she told me that if she could do it all over again, she probably would have never married the guy. I said: ‘That breaks my heart, because all these years I imagined you were happy.’ Of course, there might have been a small part of me that was thinking: ‘Haha! You married the wrong guy.’”humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series are now available, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series are now available, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series are now available, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series are now available, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofny“I just moved to New York, so it’s been a little tough meeting people. It seems like everyone already has their own group of friends. So I’m trying to become more of a ‘yes’ person and do things I normally wouldn’t do. Like I came to the park today instead of sitting at home. And I went to my first hockey game yesterday. And I joined a dodge ball team on Thursday nights. Dodge ball is a lot more pressure than I thought it would be. I try to hang back and not throw the ball, but then usually I’m the last one and everyone is aiming at me. The only consolation is knowing that it’s going to be over in two seconds. And after the game we all go to the bar. Our team name is ‘We Throw Things and Drink.’”humansofny“The bridge to Rikers Island is called the Bridge of Pain. You’re on this bus. You see the city behind you. And in front of you, you see nothing but four walls. I was sent there for a year when I was nineteen years old. My friends and I got caught stealing copper pipes from a construction site. All of us grew up together. I thought they had my back. But none of them came to see me in prison. I had zero visits. Nobody put money in my account. So I haven’t talked to any of those guys since I got out. I work two jobs now. I stay out of trouble. I’m trying not to be a negative person anymore. I still have anger problems. I think it’s because there was so much yelling and violence in my house growing up. But whenever I feel the anger coming on, I just close my eyes and rub my ears. My baby brothers used to rub my ears when I was growing up. When things got bad in the house-- it always used to calm me down.”humansofnyAll thirteen episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series are now available, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofnyWatch full episodes of Humans Of New York : The Series, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofnyWatch full episodes of Humans Of New York : The Series, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofnyWatch full episodes of Humans Of New York : The Series, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofny“I want to be a comedian. A lot of people in my class think I’m funny. Sometimes it can be hard to think of a good joke that isn’t about Trump. But even if you don’t get any laughs, you can usually just keep silent for a few minutes and try again. Sometimes I accidentally make jokes that only I get. Like the other day I tried to tell a joke about that lady who handed out cashews instead of candy for Halloween. But only my friend Aiden knew about the Cashew Lady so nobody laughed. But then later my teacher asked where I got my sources for my constitutional rights paper. And I told her I got them from ‘a sorcerer.’ Even she laughed at that one.”humansofnyWatch full episodes of Humans Of New York : The Series, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofny"A lot of younger people pass by me while I’m running. It’s a bit of a metaphor for the rest of my life. I turned forty-seven in October. I’m starting to have bosses that are younger than me. It’s causing me to question what my experience is worth. I’m noticing that my younger colleagues are more adventurous and take more risks—either because they don’t know about failure or they don’t care. As I get older, I feel like more and more of my life is outside my control. That’s why I started training for the marathon. I want to be in control of something. I can’t control current events. I can’t control politics. I can’t even control my personal relationships. But I can control my legs. I can put one leg in front of the other. I can decide the miles that I run each day, each week, each month. And it feels great. I get a rush every time I make it to the top of a hill."humansofny“We had our son through a surrogate, so we didn’t get to watch the pregnancy day-by-day. We didn’t see the stomach getting bigger. We didn’t have the same sort of emotional preparation as traditional parents. It’s like one day we weren’t parents, and then the next day we are. He was born two weeks early so we had to quickly jump on a flight. But we got to the hospital late. We actually met our son for the first time in an elevator. We were heading up to the room, and the nurses were bringing him up from the nursery. They noticed two guys carrying luggage, and said: ‘I think this might be your son!’”humansofny“She originally said she didn’t want kids. And I originally told her I was completely fine with that. But that was a lie. I guess I just thought we’d grow into the idea. She also told me that she never wanted to get married—and she changed her mind about that. So I thought she'd change her mind about a child too. Honestly, I would be disappointed if we didn’t have one. I think something magic happens when you open your heart to another living thing. But I don’t want her to make a decision for my sake. So maybe the solution is just to be disappointed.” -----------------------
"Maybe I’m just selfish. But I value our time together. And I want to continue spending time on ourselves. Plus I just don’t feel very maternal. I’m afraid that I’ll convince myself for his sake, and I’ll will myself to believe that I want a child, but then I won’t feel that connection. But he will. And then it will be the two of them-- and me.”humansofnyTwelve episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series, available now. Only on Facebook. Featuring hundreds of interviews. Link in bio. (Lexy's insta: @lexymakesthings)humansofny“I normally don’t tell people I’m a Christian because they assume you’re a zealot, or parochial, or close-minded. And I don’t think I’m any of those things. I go to a progressive church. We bring in great speakers and do a lot of volunteering. My religion is just a centering part of my life. It gives me guideposts. It gives me a code of ethics and helps me see dignity in other people. Sure, there’s a storybook nature to it. And it can be a shame that people focus so much on the story. I'd rather focus on the message the story conveys."humansofnyWatch full episodes of Humans Of New York : The Series, only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofny“I work at a disposable razor factory. We used to have seven hundred workers. There were lines of people down conveyor belts. Now there’s only four hundred left, and most of those are just temporary. Machines do everything now. Anything that required hands, at least. We used to look at the razors through microscopes-- trying to find imperfections. Now the computer just takes a picture. Even the forklifts drive themselves. Soon there will be nobody left. People are just too expensive. You can’t stop it. I tried my own little protest for a while. I told myself that I wasn’t going to buy any of the cheap stuff from Wal-Mart. But that didn’t last long. I couldn’t afford anything else.”humansofny“I’ve been at the same company for nine years. I should have moved up by now. But I’ve just never been good at office politics. I assumed my work ethic and performance would be enough. But some people are just better at getting recognized. They ingratiate themselves with the boss. They have no problem taking credit for other people’s work. They’ll diminish your accomplishments and inflate their own. I’d never go that far. But I’m not waiting to get noticed anymore. If I beat a deadline, solve a tough problem, or get great feedback from a customer—I’m copying upper management on the email.”humansofnyIt's a perfect night for binging HONY episodes! Eleven full episodes. Hundreds of stories. Only on Facebook. Link in bio.humansofny"My husband is running for city council in Long Beach and it's been a difficult race. His name is Joseph Naham. He didn't get many contributions or media coverage because he's running as a Green Party candidate. He's optimistic, because that's who he is, but there's a chance he might be a bit hurt by the results tonight. So I got him these flowers to thank him. He put his whole heart into the race. This wasn't a power play for him. He genuinely wanted to help the community. I just want him to know that no matter what happens, he's planting seeds, and they're gonna grow, and that's what it's all about."humansofny"I just tried to go on my first run post-wedding. I wanted to make it three miles but I couldn't do it. Toward the end I tried switching my soundtrack from techno to gospel, but I still had to stop. Too much eating during the honeymoon. You should have seen me on the wedding day, though. All that hard work paid off. That tux fit like lotion."humansofny“I had an awakening on a balcony in Seattle. I was listening to soul music on my Walkman. And I was paying attention to the music. And suddenly I realized that I was the attention itself. I realized that I’m not my mind—I’m the awareness of my mind. We’re all just drops of consciousness and if you get to the point where you can turn around and see your drop, you’ll discover that it’s connected to an ocean of consciousness. And then you’ll be illumined. I don’t care if anyone believes me. I’m not trying to convert anyone. There’s nothing to convert because everyone is exactly where they’re supposed to be right now.”humansofnyStaying in tonight? Eleven full episodes of Humans Of New York : The Series, now available on Facebook! Featuring hundreds of interviews. Link in bio.humansofny“You know how when you see a group of geese in a field, and there’s always one with its head up, looking around? That’s me. I was always afraid. Just anxious. It’s like my mind was a heat-seeking missile, always honing in on what could possibly go wrong. My first daughter got the brunt of it. I was so worried about everything. Her first plane ride. Her first day of school. Her first sleepover. I thought if I anticipated every little thing that might go wrong, then maybe I could fend things off. But that’s never possible. Things will always go wrong. The best you can do is give your kids self-confidence. But I’m afraid I passed on my anxiety instead. Because when Mom is always afraid of the world, the world becomes something to fear.”humansofny“We met five years ago in the comment section of our Wordpress blogs. I was living in the Philippines. I randomly discovered his blog and commented on a post about how much he can eat in one sitting. Then it became one ongoing conversation for three years. We began our relationship on August 24th 2013-- when I wrote ‘I love you’ in an email. We talked every day, but we didn’t even meet in person until two years later when he came to visit me in the Philippines. He proposed the very first day. We stopped working on our old blogs and created one together called Two Bees In A Blog."humansofnyFriday night plans fall through? Eleven full episodes of Humans Of New York : The Series are now available on Facebook! Four years of filming. 1200 interviews. Link to show page in bio.humansofnyThanks to the millions of people who've watched the HONY Series so far. The response has been amazing. There are now eleven full episodes on the show page, featuring hundreds of stories. If you haven't seen one yet, choose an episode at random and give it a try! Link in bio.humansofny“I found out on my 21st birthday that my dad was leaving my mom. At first I was angry with him. It seemed extremely selfish. But when I finally agreed to talk to him, he told me that he’d been depressed for five years. He told me that he’d felt trapped in his life and his marriage. He even told me that one night he drove out to a bridge, thought about killing himself, and only changed his mind at the last minute. Part of me empathizes with him. I never realized he was hiding this depression from us. But at the same time he made choices that really hurt our family. So I’m trying to figure out what blame he deserves. At what point is a person with mental illness still responsible for their choices?”humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“It was a tsunami. In April of ’82 there was an article in the New York Times about a new gay cancer, and everyone thought ‘oh well.’ I was in my twenties. I wasn’t worried about a thing. But then every week you started to hear about somebody becoming ill. My boss was one of the first. He was a famous florist. He went into the hospital on Thanksgiving and was dead by Easter. I lost most of my friends. A lot of the first men to die were privileged. They were closeted, corporate white men. During the day they were bankers but at night they’d hit the leather clubs and bars. But they learned their privilege didn’t matter after they got sick. They were just ‘gay.’ We had to fight for AIDS to be recognized by the government. We joined together with people of color, and junkies, and prostitutes. It was a beautiful thing, really. Our feminist lesbian sisters taught us how to protest because they’d been doing it for decades. They showed us how to organize meetings, and bring people together, and force the government to the table—things we’d never had to think about as white men.”humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“At first I told myself I could get past it. I said, ‘Let’s just see how it goes.’ We had excellent dates. Everything else about her was exactly what I wanted. I didn’t want to ruin something good for that one little reason. But it’s been 1.5 years. And I feel horrible, but I just can’t get past it. And I feel like a bad person for being bothered by it. I can’t bring myself to tell her. We’re going to couple’s therapy next week, but I still don’t think I’ll be able to say it. Is there any right way to ask someone to lose weight for you?”aerialthreat@tgrstylehumansofnyThere are now eight episodes of Humans of New York: The Series available on Facebook! The New York Times calls it 'very powerful.' The Week calls it 'social media at it's best.' I call it 'that thing I spent four years on.' So check it out if you get a chance! Link in bio.humansofnyThere are now eight episodes of Humans of New York: The Series available on Facebook! The New York Times calls it 'very powerful.' The Week calls it 'social media at it's best.' I call it 'that thing I spent four years on.' So check it out if you get a chance! Link in bio.humansofny“Zoe loves the movies. So I knew if I was going to propose, it had to involve the movies. But I can’t make a movie myself because I don’t work in film. So I had to get creative. I ordered a black-and-white Italian film from a vintage film dealer. It seemed vaguely romantic. I spent four months editing it on my computer. I changed all the subtitles. I cut out the harem scene. I completely changed the plot so that it resembled our lives. I wrote some dialogue about picture frames because Zoe’s family owns a frame shop. And I love trains. So I made the main character a train enthusiast. When I finished the editing, I rented out a small theater with sixty seats. I invited all of Zoe’s friends and family. I made sure everyone sat in the front and didn’t turn around. The weather was beautiful that day. Zoe didn’t want to go to a movie. We got in a big fight about it, but I finally convinced her. I was so nervous that I laughed during the whole film. I’d seen all the jokes 1000 times but I laughed at them anyway. Then during the final scene, the main characters started speaking to the audience, and one of them asked: ‘Does anyone here want to get married?’ So I stood up. The lights came on. All her friends and family turned around. And I gave a speech that I prepared. I was so nervous that I forgot to ask the actual question. But Zoe bailed me out and said ‘yes’ anyway.”humansofny“My mom went off when she found out I was gay. It’s not accepted in Jamaican culture. I had to pretend I was ‘over it’ just so I could stay in the house. I didn’t really have anyone to talk to about it. I was always getting in fights with other kids. I didn’t even have a real friend until I was seventeen. I joined my school’s volleyball team, and the coach paired me up with a boy named Winnie to work on drills. I was still in the closet. He was much more flamboyant than me. He’d make me laugh. We’d talk about other boys on the team. He showed me how to not take myself so seriously. And we had similar backgrounds too. Winnie lived in a single parent home. His mother didn’t accept his lifestyle either. Sometimes we’d talk on the phone at night. Or we’d get a slice of pizza after practice. These were things that I’d never done with anyone before. I never pursued anything romantic because I couldn’t risk the friendship. It was the first time I didn’t feel alone."amandamarielackey@hannahsultemeier 😂😂😂😂😂jgarcia_88@neilmetznergoronphcWow 👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽 I need to see this womanhumansofny“I came to America when I was six years old. Mom said she brought us here so that we’d have opportunities in life. She said that back in the Bahamas, it’s only the ‘haves’ and the ‘have nots.’ She wanted us to have more choices. But I don’t think she fully understood how things work here. She was a news reporter back in the Bahamas. But the only job she could get here was taking care of old people. My dad could only work construction. We moved to four different states just so they could find work. They always told me, ‘Just study hard in school and everything will work out fine.’ So that was my plan. I got all A’s up until the 11th grade-- except for one B in math. My goal was to get top twenty in my class, then go to college, then get a degree, and then get a job. I realized the truth my senior year. My guidance counselor told me I couldn’t get a loan. I couldn’t get financial aid. Even if I could find a way to pay for school, I probably couldn’t get a job. I felt so mad at everyone. There were some kids who completely slacked off in school, but even they were going to college. I started having panic attacks. My dad told me not to worry. He called me a ‘doubting Peter.’ He invited all his friends over to a fish fry to help raise money. And he did get $3,000. But that wasn’t enough. So I searched really hard on the Internet and found the Dream.us scholarship. My mom was so excited when I got it. They’re paying for me to go to Queens College. Now my mom’s really scared again because DACA got revoked. She’s crying all the time at work. I try to tell her that no matter what happens, we’re not going to die. We just might have to start over.”humansofnySix episodes of Humans Of New York: The Series are now available on Facebook. Link in bio. NYT calls "very powerful." The Week calls "social media at it's best." You. will. love. it.humansofny“I was on a leadership team in 5th grade. At the end of the year we were supposed to take a trip to Washington DC. We held fundraisers and everything. But when it was time to go, I didn’t have the identification papers to buy a plane ticket. So our teacher Ms. Rivera decided that we’d take a bus. Just so I could go too. That trip changed my life. It made me want to be a lawyer. And Ms. Rivera became one of the closest people in my life. She always kept in touch. She basically watched me grow up. One time in high school I got in a huge fight with my mom, and Ms. Rivera came and took me on a long car ride. I started to tell her everything. I told her about a recent break-up, and how I smoked weed, and ‘I did this,’ and ‘I did that.’ She just listened to everything. Then she started telling me about her life too. She told me that she’d been in an abusive relationship. I’d always thought her life was perfect because she was a guidance counselor. But she’d been through so much too. When it was came time to apply for college, Ms. Rivera was the one who helped me apply for DACA. She told me about the TheDream.us scholarship. I didn’t even want to apply. I was ready to give up. I’d just accepted that I’d always work in restaurants like my mom. But Ms. Rivera made me apply. She said: ‘What happened to that girl who wanted to be a lawyer?’ I learned that I got the scholarship in February. They're paying for my entire college. Ms. Rivera was so proud of me. She kept saying: ‘I told you so.’”humansofny“I was just a year old when my family came from Ecuador. My parents were always open with me about it. Even from a young age. I was lucky that way-- a lot of undocumented kids don’t find out the truth until they’re much older. Their parents never tell them because they want them to feel normal. So the kids grow up thinking that they’re 100 percent American. Then they try to study abroad, or apply to colleges, and they find out they don’t have the papers. And it hits them hard. It’s like they’ve got to figure themselves out all over again. They learn that they aren’t a part of the culture they grew up in. And they start to feel a sense of shame. Nobody ever talks about it. They’re too afraid. I certainly never told anyone. That’s why DACA was so interesting. It gave us the smallest amount of safety. People started to step out of the shadows, and say ‘I’m here.’ We began to find each other. Now there’s a community. And we’re speaking out together. We grew up in this culture. We grew up with the same kids as everyone else. This is our home.”humansofnyNew episode of Humans Of New York : The Series, now available on Facebook! (Link in bio.) If you're only on Instagram these days, may require dusting off the FB account, but I promise it's worth it. :)humansofny“We were pretty poor back in Mexico. My parents were divorced. Mom did the best she could. She was always a hustler. She’d sell jewelry, or food, or anything that she could. But a lot of nights there still wouldn’t be enough to eat. We’d survive on tortillas and salt. I was only eight when we came to America. So I was too young to understand. I think my mom thought she could make some money and bring us home. She thought she’d learn English, and maybe start a business. But it was so much harder than she expected. We moved so much looking for work. She’s fifty and she still cleans houses every day. Every year she gets more worn down. She’s been getting sick a lot lately. But she can’t afford to stop. She never will. Right now I’m in school. I always thought I had to be the best student because I’m undocumented. I thought I’d go to law school, or graduate school. But now I’m not so sure. My mom would literally destroy her body to make that happen for me. How could I allow that to happen? I’m a Dreamer. And everyone loves the Dreamers because we’re a perfect package to sell. But why am I the only one who gets the chance to feel safe? Whenever I hear ‘I stand with Dreamers,’ I always think about my mom. I’m not willing to throw her under the bus. I'm not willing to be a bargaining chip to make her seem like a criminal. Everything people admire about Dreamers is because of our parents.”humansofnyFirst four episodes of Humans Of New York : The Series, now available on Facebook! Pretty sure it's the best thing I've ever made, so check it out if you get a chance. Link in bio.humansofny“I got divorced when I was sixty-four. We had a good run. We were married for 36 years. We’re not enemies. We just outgrew each other. When the kids were in the house, all our focus was on them. But after they left, there just wasn’t any reason to keep doing it. We were just living our own lives—together. Neither of us was all that interested in changing. So what’s the point in staying together? If you talk to most people my age, and they’re really being honest, they’ll tell you that they’re dissatisfied with their partner. But then they’ll shrug their shoulders and say: ‘Where else am I going to go?’ Because most people can’t stand to be alone. My ex-wife and I never had that problem.”humansofnyFirst four episodes of Humans Of New York : The Series, now available on Facebook! NYT calls it "very powerful" and "poignancy on steroids." Link in bio. Click on over and give it a whirl!humansofny“My first time was October 18th, 2013. I was a freshman in college. I was alone in my dorm room and I’d just eaten a bunch of Halloween candy. So I purged it. I felt great afterward. I thought I’d discovered a new tool. It seemed like a way to stop gaining weight. But it became very powerful, very quickly. My second time was two days later. Soon it became most meals. I became addicted to watching the numbers drop. I lost all power over it. I was dizzy and depressed all the time. I couldn’t focus in class or go out with friends. For five months, I lost all control. Then I finally got help. I started talking about it. And the more I talked about it, the more control I got back. The eating disorder lost its power when it stopped being a secret. I’m much better now, but I’ll always be recovering. A few weeks ago I had a relapse. It was the first time in months. Even though I was disappointed, I reminded myself that it wasn’t the end of the world. I haven’t lost all the progress I’ve made over the past four years. I just need to stay positive. And keep talking about it.”humansofnyFirst two episodes of 'Humans Of New York: The Series' are now available on Facebook! Filmed over 4 years. Created from over 1200 interviews. Link in bio.humansofnyFirst two episodes of 'Humans Of New York: The Series' are now available on Facebook! Filmed over 4 years. Created from over 1200 interviews. Link in bio.humansofnyFirst two episodes of 'Humans Of New York: The Series' are now available on Facebook! Filmed over 4 years. Created from over 1200 interviews. Link in bio.humansofnyFirst two episodes of 'Humans Of New York: The Series are now available on Facebook!' Filmed over 4 years. Created from over 1200 interviews. Link in bio.humansofnyFirst two episodes of 'Humans Of New York: The Series' are now available on Facebook! Filmed over 4 years. Created from over 1200 interviews. Watch at facebook.com/honytheserieshumansofnyFirst two episodes of 'Humans Of New York: The Series are now available on Facebook!' Filmed over 4 years. Created from over 1200 interviews. Watch at facebook.com/honytheserieshumansofnyFirst two episodes of 'Humans Of New York: The Series are now available on Facebook!' Filmed over 4 years. Created from over 1200 interviews. Watch at facebook.com/honytheserieshumansofnyFirst two episodes of Humans Of New York : The Series are now available on Facebook! Link in bio.humansofnyHumans of New York is now a show on Facebook! First episode premieres today. Link in bio.humansofny“My mother was sixteen when the war came to St. Petersburg. She was the oldest of four children, so her parents chose to evacuate her first. She was supposed to find a job and the rest of the family would follow. She was evacuated with a factory. The workers were on one boat and the machinery was on the other. The boat with the machinery was bombed and sank to the bottom of the river. My mother ended up in a city thousands of miles away. Sometimes there was such little food that she survived on grass. But everyone who stayed behind in the city died. Her entire family was killed in one night. Growing up, she always told us about St. Petersburg. She hung paintings of the city all over our house. So we wanted to bring her back here before she died. When we arrived in the city, we went straight to visit her old house. Only the foundation was left. But when we got off at the subway stop, the strangest thing happened. Two children came running toward us. Their mother was calling after them: ‘Sonya and Misha!’ They had the same names as me and my brother. It was as if they were greeting us.”
(St. Petersburg, Russia)humansofny“I met him six months ago at work. I’m the manager of a store. He was a delivery man. He was playful and fun. He’d bring me coffee and buns in the morning. He started driving me home at night. We began dating and recently moved in together. But a few weeks ago I called his cell phone and a woman picked up. She started asking who I was, and said she wanted to know why I was calling ‘her man.’ Afterwards he told me it was a big misunderstanding. He said it was his ex-girlfriend, and he’d been with her for nine years, so he still feels a responsibility to provide for her. He swears it’s just a material relationship. But she calls him all the time now. He’s not my property, and I don’t want to lose him, but I just want him to make her go away. But he acts like it’s my problem. When I tell him it bothers me, he just says: ‘I’ll ask her not to call at night.’” (St. Petersburg, Russia)humansofny“She needed people around us and I didn’t understand that. I was locked on the two of us. There was a Russian writer who wrote: ‘I hated the world so that I could love you more.’ And that was me. I stopped talking to my old friends. I stopped spending time with people from work. And I wanted her to do the same. I was jealous, maybe. She was much younger than me so that made me feel insecure. I don’t think I wasn’t being mean. I was just asking her not to go to work parties. She left me 258 days ago. We’d just come back from a holiday by the sea, and everything seemed fine. It was just like always. We were swimming, drinking wine, going to cafes. I had no idea it was coming. One morning we were having coffee in the kitchen, and she said: ‘I don’t love you anymore.’ It was two months straight of drinking vodka after that. I lost thirty pounds. Only now is the wound starting to heal. I’m getting used to being lonely.” (Moscow, Russia)humansofny“I don’t get to live the life of a seventeen year old. My mom is always working and I have a six-year-old brother. So I have to do everything that a mother would do. I take him to kindergarten, pick him up, feed him, clean up after him. I don’t get to take breaks. I can’t play sports after school. I can’t get extra tutoring. But it’s not my mom’s fault. She’s trying to save money for me to go to college. And she tells me every day that I’m a wonderful daughter. But it’s been very difficult for me. The only good thing is that I can understand adult problems already. I don’t take anything for granted and I know that life is not easy. It seems like my friends aren’t even studying to get knowledge. They’re studying to get an allowance. So I think I’m more mature than most seventeen year olds. But at some point I would like some time to take care of myself. Or maybe even have someone take care of me for a change.” (Moscow, Russia)humansofny“I’m trying to undo old patterns. If she does something that was prohibited in my own childhood, I automatically react. It comes from inside of me. So if we need to go somewhere, and she’s resisting, and I feel like yelling, I’ll turn it into a game. I’ll be the mother cat, and she’ll be the kitten. Or we’ll both be princesses going on an adventure. Honestly, I think the pretending helps me more than it helps her. It’s what forces me out of those patterns.” (Moscow, Russia)humansofny“I graduated more than one thousand kids from elementary school. I'd still be teaching but my eyes went bad. It’s such an important time in a child’s life. It’s when they learn speech, grammar, and how to pay attention. It’s when the tree gets its roots. If you’re taught wrong in elementary school, you’ll be trying to catch that train for the rest of your life.” (St. Petersburg, Russia)humansofny“My daughter was injured during birth. Her back was broken during labor. She’s in her thirties now but she still has a lot of problems, especially in her mind. She can’t be left alone. Sometimes she doesn’t even know where she is. It’s like she’s living in a ghost world. It’s been very difficult for us. My wife had to stop working and became severely depressed. We can’t travel. We can’t be active. I try not to resent my daughter but it can be hard. Sometimes she gets very aggressive. When she was younger, she threw all of our possessions out the window. I don’t think many people could have handled it. They’d have taken her to an institution by now. But I can’t do it. Those places are very scary. But my wife and I are getting old. We have no other relatives. So that’s where she’ll end up one day. I try not to imagine it. But it’s inevitable.” (St. Petersburg, Russia)humansofny“I’m fourteen and all my friends are crazy about being grown ups right now. They’re drinking alcohol. They’re smoking cigarettes. They’re trying to act vulgar. They’ll do anything to separate from their parents and prove that they’re independent. Personally, I’d like to be a child just a little bit longer. I love spending time with my parents. I’m not in a rush to get away. I’d like these times to last as long as possible.” (St. Petersburg, Russia)humansofny“We met six months ago at a dance night. His wife passed away three years ago. I’d been married for thirty years and gotten divorced. It was just nice to have someone to talk to. We have so much in common. My ex-husband only wanted to stay home and watch TV. But we do all sorts of things together: walk around the city, go to museums, travel.” “Have sex.”
“Hush.”
“What? We’re still young.” (St. Petersburg, Russia)humansofny“It wasn’t an official marriage. We didn’t register. But we had a plan. I was earning good money even though I was young. I was already a specialist at the age of nineteen. She was very beautiful. We’d been together for four years. She was a good person and very easy to talk to. She’d met my family and everyone loved her. At the time I was helping to construct a new subway line in Moscow. I came home from work one day and she was gone. There were no cell phones back then. Nobody knew where she was. She’d last been seen getting into a private taxi with her friend Natalya. A lot of people were disappearing during that time. The police stopped searching after a few months. She wasn't seen again. There’s a line from a Russian poem. It says: ‘We love just once in a lifetime. And spend the rest of our lives looking for something similar.’ I’ve had other girlfriends after Oksana. But I don’t remember their birthday. Oksana’s birthday was July 9th. She was a Leo.” (St. Petersburg, Russia)humansofny“I quit my job earlier this year. I’m taking a little time to focus on myself. I worked from nine to six everyday. I often brought my work home with me. I was getting sick, and anxious, and I wasn’t sleeping well. But I could never accept my weaknesses. I’d see other people working harder than me, and I’d think: ‘If they can do it, why should I feel tired?’ Eventually I pushed myself so hard that I became depressed. One reason I couldn’t slow down is because my entire family is hard working. Both my parents are architects. My grandfather is an engineer. The importance of hard work has been passed down through the generations. I think the entire country is afraid to stop working. There have been so many hard times. There’s been so much hunger. For so long we had to work all the time just to survive. Even though things are better now, that’s a difficult to psychology to escape. I’m starting to interview for new jobs. But I’m asking different questions. Money is the last thing I worry about. I’m much more interested in the schedule.” (St. Petersburg, Russia)humansofny“I came here to meet a girl that I know from the Internet. She's coming all the way from Belarus. It's nothing sexual. Just a friendship. Her name is Olga. We’ve known each other for seven years but this is the first time we’re meeting in person. She’s supported me through a lot of hard times. I get bullied a lot. People at my school often call me names and try to start fights with me. They send love letters to other guys in my name. Olga has comforted me a lot. She checks in with me throughout the day. She says things like: ‘You don’t deserve it.’ And ‘Don’t pay attention to them.’ Her messages have really helped me get through the last few years-- even if they were just words on the Internet.” (St. Petersburg, Russia)humansofny“We were together for nine years. I was completely dependent on him. He was a strong and powerful man and he expected obedience. If he called me at 4 AM, and told me to meet him in Moscow, I was expected to go to the train station. He had a very strong energy. It was hard to argue with him. In the beginning of the relationship, I obeyed because of the pressure. But then the pressure just became a habit. It got worse as time went on. Eventually he stopped listening to me completely. I became so lonely. When you’re with someone who doesn’t care about your views, and has no desire to understand you, it’s worse than being alone. I still loved him though. I knew that he’d had a hard life. I told myself that I had to make sacrifices to build a family. But one morning I woke up and decided that I couldn’t do it anymore. If I stayed in the relationship, I would lose myself completely. I remember it was raining that morning. There was mud in the streets. And something told me: ‘Today is the day.’ That was two years ago. I’ve spent these last two years learning to be alone. I’m realizing the things that I like to do. I feel better, I look better, and I’ve been sharing more of myself with others. I feel like I’m finally learning who I am.” (St. Petersburg, Russia)humansofny“I’m ninety but I feel like I’m fifty. I don’t take any medicine. I never complain. I’m just happy to be alive. I tell people: ‘Start with what you have, not with what you want.’ Every day I dance for two hours. And I’m still really interesting too. I love politics and literature. I love the sciences. And I’ve got a boyfriend named Alexander. We exchange books. I don’t even know how old he is.” (Moscow, Russia)humansofny“My father died in his sleep last year. Right after my birthday. I didn’t have a good relationship with him. He left the family when I was ten. We had good moments but we were never really close. I wanted him to understand me. I wanted him to realize that I needed support, and love, and somebody to take care of me. I needed him to say ‘I’m sorry.’ But he never did. Whenever we talked, all he cared about was getting across his side of the story. And then he died. And now I have to forgive someone who can’t say ‘I’m sorry.’ I feel like I’m playing this game of chess. And I have to keep making moves, or nothing will ever change. Except that there’s nobody sitting across from me anymore. And I can only guess the moves that he’d make.” (St. Petersburg, Russia)humansofny“There are always two little beautiful humans looking at me like I'm the most important thing in the world. They copy everything I do, especially my son. I’m very careful how I treat my wife because I know that’s how he’ll learn to treat women. I call my wife pet names, and my son started calling his sister those same names. Recently I picked flowers for my wife. And the next day he picked flowers for his sister.” (Moscow, Russia)humansofny“I’ve worked in the circus my entire life. I studied to be a clown for many years. A great clown can make you see your own clumsiness. There are many famous clowns. Einstein was a clown. I always think of that famous picture of Einstein sticking out his tongue. That is a sign of extreme intelligence. Dumb people are always working on their serious face. They think a serious face will make them seem intelligent. But intelligent people don't need a serious face.” (Moscow, Russia)humansofny“I was only eighteen when my first daughter was born. Her name was Svetlana. She came down with an infection but there were no antibiotics in the hospital. I begged the doctors and nurses to tell me where to buy them. But none of them would tell me because they were afraid to go to jail. I finally found some American medicine on the black market. But weeks had already passed and it was too late. The antibiotics didn’t work and my daughter passed away. Up until that moment, I had considered becoming an artist or a dancer. But I decided then to become a doctor.” (Moscow, Russia)humansofny“I’m afraid I’ll live a useless life and nobody will remember me. I don’t feel a strong interest toward anything. If I do, it’s just a momentary thing, and then I drop it. I tried acting. I tried swimming. I tried dancing. But I got bored with all of it. If I don’t choose something soon then I’ll leave nothing behind. We only have a certain amount of energy in life. If you don’t put it somewhere then it’s wasted. I feel like one of the little yellow minions from that movie. They get sad if they don’t have a villain to serve. When I have a goal, and I’m moving toward it, and I reach it, then I feel a little relief. That’s what life is to me. A series of goals that you move toward. I don’t think it’s possible to just become happy. Life’s not that easy. But if you keep moving, you can forget that you’re sad.” (Moscow, Russia)humansofny“I cut my hair the other day. It used to be down to my waist. It’s a personal experiment. I’m trying to prove to myself that I can have short hair and still be feminine. It can be hard when I step out on the street and all the other women have long hair. I think a lot of people see short hair, and form an idea that I hate men, or that I only think about business. But I still feel feminine inside. I guess I want to prove that feeling has nothing to do with the type of attention I’m getting.” (Moscow, Russia)humansofny“This is a picture of me before I lost my job. It was only a year ago but I barely recognize that person now. I was thirty pounds heavier. I was much more confident. It felt like a guardian angel was guiding my steps. Things always seemed to work out for me. Now it seems like my guardian angel is drunk. Now I look at this picture and see a man who’s wearing a mask. The man in the picture wants to be seen as a person who does important things. He wants to be seen as confident, and harsh, and a leader. He wants to be seen as an attorney. Now I just want to be seen as a person. Someone who’s calm. Who’s balanced. Who loves his friends and family. And who’s kind.” (Moscow, Russia)humansofnyToday in microfashion... (Moscow, Russia)humansofny“I’m the lead singer in this band because he can’t hear very well. But I’d like to say that he’s a wonderful man. You should have seen him when we met in 1953. Green eyes. Black hair. A little gray on the side. All my girlfriends were so jealous. He had no money so he sold his best suit to buy me fruit and flowers. I used to get entire letters from him that were written in verse. He still writes in verse-- but just little notes now. I think he might have run out of verse.” (Moscow, Russia)humansofny“I’ve sold thousands of pieces of latex in my life and I’m a doyen of the fetish scene. I love to get people from ‘here’ to ‘there.’ ‘Here’ is having a fetish and hiding it. ‘There’ is exploring it. Trust me, your dark secret is nothing I haven’t heard before. It’s nothing to be ashamed of. It’s just what you’re into. And there’s plenty of other people who are into the same thing. You should never feel shame. Unless of course shame gets you off.”humansofny“I have four boys. I was a single mother for most of my life. But I’ve been a good mother. I’m going to pat myself on the back for that. It wasn’t easy. I struggled hard. In my twenties, I got kicked out on the street with four young kids. But I made sure they were always safe, fed, sheltered, and had proper clothes for the season. They always had bikes and skates. And I kept them busy. I signed them up for everything: karate, basketball, swimming, you name it. I paid for it all. I didn’t want them spending time in the streets, so I’d work overtime just to keep them busy. I never had much left over for myself. I sacrificed a lot for them. I still wake up at 3:30 every morning to beat the traffic across the bridge. But they always come first. Because they never asked to come here. They were my decision.”humansofny“My mother had always been functional as long as she took her medicine. But a couple years ago I began to notice a change. When we spoke on the phone, she’d laugh at the smallest things. Everything was a joke to her. But then she could also get very angry. She became convinced that people were plotting against her. She kicked all my siblings out of the house. When I went home to California, I discovered that she had drawn lines and circles inside all of her books. She seemed fixated on certain times and dates. Everything bothered her. She started calling me ‘faggot’ and things like that. It’s been a tough two years. She’s gotten worse and worse. I’ve flown back to California four times, but we barely speak when I'm home. It’s like she’s not even there. Meanwhile I’ve stopped investing in my friendships. I’ve had to drop out of my dance company. I’ve been getting depressed. Even when I’m not with her, I’m worrying about her. It’s getting to the point where I have to choose not to care about this. I have to think of her as gone. I didn’t create this. I created my life. And I don’t think I can take care of us both.”humansofny“I always wanted to be a mental health therapist. Ever since high school, I've enjoyed encouraging people and giving them hope. But I lost my way. I got caught in a world of addiction. I lost ten years of my life to drugs. I stopped when I became pregnant with my child, but by that time it was too late to go back to school. I started working as an office manager. I never completely lost my dream. But I just put it on a shelf for thirty years. Then five years ago I took it off the shelf. I heard a lady in my choir talking about how she enrolled in community college. I drove there the very next day. I was so nervous when I filled out the application. I was so nervous the first day of class. All the old voices were telling me: ‘You never finish anything.’ But I said ‘fuck you’ to the old voices. And I started getting A’s. On my first test, I got the only perfect score in the class. I graduated at the age of 50. I got my Masters at 55. And just last night I completed a mental health first aid course. I’m so close now. There’s still fear there. I used to be afraid of it never happening. Now I’m afraid of it happening. The old voices try to come back sometimes. They tell me: ‘You can rest,’ or ‘You’ve earned a break.’ But I’m not stopping this time. Somebody out there is waiting for me to finish because they need my help."humansofny“Both my wife and I were raised in Guyana. Neither of our families demonstrated much affection. Physical contact was always reserved for discipline. There was a certain harshness in our household that I believe was passed down from slavery. Slaves were always punished for showing affection. They were never allowed to bond. And the effects of that have been passed down through the generations. My wife and I aren’t passionate people. We don’t express our feelings. We don’t say ‘I love you.’ We just banter back and forth. But now she’s sick with a major diagnosis. I’ve had to do everything for her: the shopping, the cooking, the housework. I try to be as responsive as possible to her needs. It’s the only way I know to show her that I care and I feel and I hurt.”humansofny"First grade will be more harder than kindergarten cause I won't know how to write all the words."humansofny“My older brother was my hero growing up. Everyone called him ‘Jise.’ He was this hip-hop dude. People loved him, especially the girls. Everyone knew when he walked into a room. I was the opposite. I blended into the crowd. I was quiet. I made straight A’s. I liked comic books and action figures. So I always looked up to him. He was murdered one night in 1989. Somebody shot him. I was fifteen at the time, and I just kind of gave up. I thought our family was cursed. I always had this feeling that I was up next. So it was like, ‘What’s the point of being good?’ I dropped out of school. I started hanging out with the wrong crowd. We started robbing people. I never actually took anything myself. I just tagged along for the adrenaline high. Even at my lowest, part of me was always the same good kid. I always held down a job. I wrote poetry. I kept dream journals. Whenever we were getting into trouble, my friends would always tease me. They’d say: ‘This isn’t you, man. Why are you here?’ Hip-hop saved me. It gave me a voice. I started doing open mic nights. I took all those dream journals and turned them into lyrics. I joined a group called The Arsonists. We toured all over Europe. We pressed a lot of records. Of course I always held down a second job. My proudest moment was when they wrote about us in The Source. My stage name was ‘Jise,’ in honor of my brother. It was like I’d gotten us both there.”humansofny“My English is not good. Spoken English is very difficult. But I want to study at Columbia so I am trying to improve. I decided to come to America because of Forrest Gump. I’ve watched the movie five times. I like Forrest very much. Forrest is very simple. He picks one thing, and he keeps going. When I was young, I thought Forrest was stupid. But now I have a different view. I think people are too complicated. They complain about everything. Forrest never complains. Forrest chooses one thing and he keeps going. I watched the movie last month to encourage me. My life is hard because people don’t ever know what I’m saying. But I just think of Forrest. Forrest figured everything out because he just kept going.”humansofny“My mother wasn’t the best person in the world. She was hooked on heroin for most of my life. She sold our childhood home for drug money. She left me alone to raise my brother and disabled nephew. I used to wake up every night to feed him and change his diapers. I supported us all on the $5.15 an hour that I earned from the grocery store. My mother passed away a few months ago, and I think I’m just now coming to terms with how awful she made my life. This is the most stable I’ve ever been. I have a permanent address. I have someone who legitimately loves me. But my anxiety has never been worse. I’ve been having panic attacks recently. I think I've never had to deal with the trauma because things were always coming at me. And now I’m not sure how to handle the quiet.”humansofny“Graduation weekend was a nightmare. My parents haven’t spoken to each other since my dad had an affair. Yet they both wanted to come to the ceremony. So we spent the whole weekend together. Except they didn’t speak a word to each other. It was ninety percent silence and ten percent me talking about nothing. The celebration dinner was the worst. Nobody said a word. I ended up drinking a lot of tequila. I tried to fill the silence by commenting on every single dish on the menu. I made several observations about my pasta. Then I spent an hour ‘looking’ for the perfect dessert place on Yelp. I’m pretty sure at some point I even pulled out the subway map and described how the entire system worked.”humansofny"My first husband had an affair after eighteen years of marriage. So I made this one wait nineteen years before I married him."humansofny“I lost my job last week. I was there for six years. It was the first job I’ve ever lost. It’s hard not to take it personally when someone tells you that you’re not needed. There were ten people on my team, and I’m the one they chose. So my mind has been running through all the possible things I could have done wrong. The first few days were the hardest. I spent a lot of time crying. But my birthday was a few days ago, and my friends took me out for a taco night. And it woke me up. I started laughing. I couldn’t even remember why I'd felt so sad. My life was so much bigger than that job. I’m healthy, I live in a wonderful city, and I have a great group of friends. I just lost a small piece of the pie.”humansofny“I don’t think I’m going to miss eighth grade. It’s been a tough year. A lot of my friends are struggling with depression and self-harm, and it’s hard for me to watch. I just care about them so much. Growing up is so hard for some people. It’s such a big thing. It’s your foundation, I guess. You’re becoming you. It’s such a big thing and we’re going through it right now. Some of my friends are struggling with loving themselves and loving life. I think they forget that we’re still learning. They think that they’re already who they’re going to be. They think they know the future. And it’s going to be horrible. And they’ll never be able to fix it. But that’s not true because we’re still changing. And we’ll always be changing. Even when we’re old, we’ll be changing.”humansofny“I grew up in an abusive household where I never got any approval. I always felt unattractive and gross. But everything changed the first time I walked into a gay club. Everyone turned to look at me. I was the newest thing. I felt like I could have anyone I wanted. It was the first time in my life that I felt a sense of power, and I became addicted to it. I started using sex as a way to satisfy my juvenile need for approval. And that need didn’t go away when I found a long-term partner. I tried to tell him about it one time. We were walking in this park, and I told him about my strong desire to be with other people. I thought maybe if we could talk about my feelings, they would go away. But he took it personally. He teared up. He looked like he’d been stabbed in the heart. So I took it all back. I never mentioned it again. Until he caught me cheating on him.”humansofny“I’m driving to pay off my student debts. I had to start college late because my father had a stroke shortly after I graduated high school. He couldn’t afford to stop working. So I worked in a fried chicken restaurant seven days a week while he recovered. When he first came home from the hospital, I carried him down the stairs. He had tears in his eyes. My father emigrated from Pakistan in the eighties. He worked hard so that I could have a better life. In that moment, I think he saw that I’d turned into the son that he’d always hoped for.”humansofny“I’m turning thirty in July. And I’m still working out a lot of childish things in my dating life. I’m learning how to communicate. I’m learning to ask myself: ‘What do I want?’ instead of ‘What can I take?’ I’m learning that another person can never ‘complete me.’ And I’m learning that in certain moments it’s OK to not like somebody—even if you love them. It’s taken me longer to figure this stuff out because I had to hide my identity for so long. I know that nobody ever fully arrives, but heterosexuals definitely have a head start.”humansofny“I’m practicing French right now. I want to move to Europe so I can force myself to start over. I have a nine-to-six job. It’s a good position. They pay me well. I love my team. But everything just feels so familiar. There’s no discomfort or uncertainty anymore. On weekends I go to the same neighborhood bar. I eat at the same restaurants that I know are good. I take interesting vacations, but even those tend to follow a regular pattern. As much as I tell myself that I'm being adventurous when I hike in Peru—it’s a very planned risk. I think a new city will be good for me. I’ll start out alone. I’ll be forced to reflect. I’ll have a sense of unexpectedness. I want to feel like a tourist in my own life again.”humansofny“He’s an actor on Broadway. I broke up with him in December because he couldn’t manage his anger. He’d scream at me on subway platforms. Once he busted my lip while trying to grab something out of my hand. That was when I finally ended it. But he called me on New Year’s Eve and asked if he could go to a party with me. We’d bought our tickets months earlier. They were expensive so I agreed. My sister was coming with us so I wasn’t worried. Everyone had a great time. At the end of the night, we dropped off my sister and went back to his place. I was so drunk that I curled up in a pile of clothes. When I opened my eyes he was taking photos of me and laughing. I immediately decided to leave. It was literally the start of a new year and I wanted to begin on a good note. He yelled at me to come back but I kept walking. He followed me down the stairs and grabbed my arm. He told me to ‘stop acting stupid.’ Then he pinned me up against the side of his building. He was choking me and saying ‘calm down, calm down, calm down.’ A van drove by and started honking at us. But they didn’t stop. They didn’t help me. I broke free and ran into traffic but nobody was stopping. He caught me, and pushed me up against a van, and lifted me into the air by the neck. When I woke up on the ground he was gone. I asked the judge to sentence him to anger management courses. He's finished them. But I’m still dealing with the trauma of that night.”humansofny“’I’m obsessive, but my obsessions are productive. I’m happy. I never get depressed. I find life very interesting. I paint for hours every day. I have 100,000 postcards at home organized geographically. And I’ve written a story about every day of my life between 1981 and 2011. I have 20,000 pages of notes. Right now I’m in the editing phase. I’ll be done with that in a couple years, and then I’m going to copy the entire thing by hand. There's no way I can trust computers with something this important. I think I can finish the job in ten years. I’m pretty sure I can live long enough.”humansofny“I asked her out during a movie. I was really nervous, so I executed with about half the talent level that I could have. I accidentally swallowed some cologne in the bathroom because I tried to open the packet with my mouth. Then I never actually had the courage to ask the question. I waited until there was a scene in the movie with a boyfriend and girlfriend, and I said: ‘That could be us.’ It felt good coming out of my mouth. But then I looked over and saw confusion. But I rode out the awkward silence, and eventually she figured it out.”humansofny“I just had to sit down because I got short of breath. I was at a restaurant earlier where the manager had to seat me at the counter because I couldn’t fit in the booth. I have pain in my knees and my joints. I sleep with a breathing apparatus at night. And I’m a great candidate for a heart attack. I hate it. I hate the way I feel. But I’ve been overweight for so long that people assume I don’t want to lose weight. Friends and family wonder why I don’t just stop eating. But it’s an addiction for me. When I walk past a bakery, I feel the same way that an alcoholic must feel when he walks past a bar. But people seem to think that the alcoholic is unable to quit. And they think I choose not to.”humansofny“I grew up outside of Miami. It wasn’t easy to be young, black, and gay in my neighborhood. It was a very masculine space. All the guys played basketball or football. They wore oversize clothes. There was a clearly defined idea of what it meant to be a man. And I spent a lot of energy trying to meet that standard. I didn’t like sports but I played anyway. If I ever got bullied for acting feminine, or hanging out with girls, I’d take it to the extreme and insist on fighting. The black man is expected to be a rock. I think it comes from our history. We were abused for so long, I think there’s a resistance to ever being vulnerable again.”humansofny“Having a child was the best thing that ever happened to us. But it is constant company with terrible conversation.”humansofny“I feel like I’m just starting, but I think I’d be fine if it all went away. I get that from my mother. From the moment I started singing, she always reminded me that all of this was a privilege, and could be taken at any moment. So singing is not how I define myself. I try to keep my identity rooted in my friendships and my faith.” (Link to entire collection of Met Gala stories can be found in bio.)humansofny“She has the biggest heart. Everyone sees her success as an athlete, but all of that is layered on the size of her heart. She gives 100% of herself to everything she does: as a friend, as a lover, and soon, as a mother.”humansofny“He’s so sexy. And he taught me the importance of being silly.”
“Being silly is so important. Silly is the opposite of grief. It’s throwing yourself into a moment without care. You can’t always maintain your status as a dignified person-- it gives you blinders. When you always expect the world to fulfill your expectations, it wears you down. It closes you off.”
“So sexy.”humansofny“She always responds with empathy. She meets anger with empathy. She meets hate with empathy. She’ll take the time to imagine what happened to a person when they were five or six years old. And she’s made me a more empathetic person. I had a very fractured relationship with my father. Before he died, she made me remember things I didn’t want to remember. She made me remember the good times.”humansofny“They try to manipulate me. But I’ve got it figured out. A hug in the morning is normal. A hug at night is normal. A hug for no reason means that we saw something we want on television.” (Lima, Peru)humansofny“I live with my mom and uncles. There are twelve of us in one house. Everyone is sacrificing so that I can go to university. My mom works in restaurants and cleans houses. All her money goes to my tuition. She always tells me just to focus on school. We were short on money last semester, but she told me: ‘Don’t worry about it. I’ll find it. You just continue.’ She’s always been like that. She never wants me to be stressed. My dad passed away when I was a young child. So we’ve always struggled. Sometimes when I was growing up, there would only be enough for one meal. And my mom always said that she wasn’t hungry. I didn’t realize until I was older that she had only been pretending.” (Lima, Peru)humansofny“I knew my husband very well. We’d been living together for twenty-one years. So it was obvious that something was going on. Suddenly he started playing guitar and writing songs. The songs were OK, but I read some of the lyrics and they clearly weren’t written for me. He started wearing cologne. He started liking new foods that he’d never even tried before. So I was suspicious. Then one night he came home crying. I said: ‘What happened? Did you kill someone?’ He told me that he’d gotten a girl pregnant. She’d just had the baby and didn’t want to keep it. Then he asked me if I would raise it! I said: ‘Sure, give it to me.’ I arranged to meet the woman in the park, and she handed me the boy. He was only three days old. He felt like my son the moment I held him. I got rid of my husband a few months later. But I kept the baby. He’s sixteen now.” (Lima, Peru)humansofny“He’s always acting so serious. The last time we went out with my friends, he looked like he was constipated the entire time." (Lima, Peru)humansofny“I’ve been sitting here for three hours trying to figure out what to do. I need to make a sale. Rent is due in a week and I don’t have the money. I’m already starting to miss payments on a loan I took out recently. I made two cold calls today and both of them went like shit. I’d never do anything bad to get money, but who knows. I’m beginning to dread going home. My kids are small and want to be with me all the time, but I’m so stressed that I have no patience. I’ve been losing my temper easily. We were at my brother-in-law’s house this weekend, and he’s doing much better than I am. His kids have a bunch of toys. My son kept begging me to buy the same stupid little toy truck that his cousin had. And I yelled at him to forget it. I only had enough money in my pocket to get us home.” (Lima, Peru)humansofny“I’m about to meet up with my ex-girlfriend. We broke up two weeks ago and I’m hoping to get back together with her. I restricted her freedom too much. I scheduled all our classes together. I always wanted to know where she was. It all started a year ago when she cheated on me. She called me immediately afterwards and confessed. But ever since then, anytime she’s away from me, I always imagine the worst. She goes out with friends and some of them are male. So it’s hard for me to not get suspicious. And if I get suspicious, she gets nervous. Which makes me even more suspicious.” (Lima, Peru)humansofny"We're talking about how important it is to take a shower every day." (Lima, Peru)humansofny“My mission is to get them interested in Star Wars. My only chance is to get the big one hooked first because that’s how my kids work. I pitched Princess Leia as the most important character. I might have told a little lie and said that she was the princess of the entire galaxy. We had our first attempt the other day. I got whiplash checking to see if they were still awake, and I lost both of them before Princess Leia even showed up. I have faith in George Lucas though. We’re scheduling another screening with lots of candy. I think if we can just stay awake for the entire movie, we’ll be ready for The Empire Strikes Back.” (Lima, Peru)humansofny“I’m starting from nothing. I lost everything back in Venezuela. I had my own natural soap factory but the crisis made it impossible to get ingredients. Then the government began to take 70% of my earnings. I had to close it down. Things got so bad that I couldn’t even find food for my baby. I had a little money, but there was nowhere to buy food. I’d wait in line all day for one bag of flour. We could go days without eating. When I tried to breastfeed my daughter, I’d almost faint. Leaving the country was my only chance. I’d never said ‘goodbye’ to my daughter before. She was screaming my name when I left. It hurt worse than giving birth. But I didn’t have a choice. I told her that I was going to Colombia. I told her that I was going to make a diamond, and I’d bring it back to her. Now I sell key chains in the street. When I make some money, I send packets of food back home. I’m trying to keep a good spirit. I’m doing OK. I grew up very poor. I came from nothing. So I’ve been here before.” (Bogotá, Colombia) ------My interpreter Juan has kept in touch with Rose, and we put together a small fundraiser if anyone would like to help. Link in bio.humansofny“I didn’t even start gambling until I was 43. I thought I was mature, but I was as vulnerable as a child. I started going to the casino once or twice on the weekends. It was a social thing. I’d just play cards with my friends. But I had good luck in the beginning. I started to win. And I started to love it. I couldn’t wait for the weekend. Soon I started to go during the week. I’d work the early shift and I’d have all afternoon to play. I abandoned all my responsibilities. Once you start playing-- you forget that you’re hungry, you forget that you’re thirsty, you even forget that you have a family. I lost the grocery money, the rent money, everything. Winning felt great. And losing made me need to win. I’d make up excuses every time I came home empty handed. I’d say that I was mugged, or that my work hadn’t paid us that week. Eventually I had to sell my car. I lost our house. I lost my wife. We’d been together for twenty years. I just took for granted that she’d always be around. The only thing that I didn’t lose was my daughters. They sat me down one day, and said: ‘Dad, either quit gambling, or quit this house.’ And I never played again.” (Medellín, Colombia)humansofny“Sometimes I’d start crying in class for no reason. Then when I got home from school, I’d just go straight to my room. I couldn’t even talk to my mom about it because I’d just start crying. People would tell me: ‘Just get up, exercise, and take a walk.’ But none of that helped. Things got so bad that even the school was watching me. I started bawling during a chemistry exam and I ended up in the school psychologist office. I remember thinking: ‘I don’t care if I ever see another chemistry exam again. Or my friends. Or my mom.’ And I started to get this feeling that I was definitely going to do it. I was going to lock myself in my room that night and take a bunch of pills. The only thing that stopped me was imagining my mom finding my body. That was three years ago. That time seems so far away now. I found a great therapist. I learned so much about myself. There’s so much that I want to do now. I want to travel. I want to get married. I want to have kids. There are so many poems that I haven’t written and songs I haven’t heard. So it’s terrifying for me to think that I came so close. My problems were small back then. They were teenage problems. But I came one step away from not being. And I had made the decision to take that step. I’m afraid that I can go back to that place again. And next time, my problems will probably not be so small.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“I think I’m obsessed with the idea of finding a girlfriend. I think about it all the time. I really want to know what it feels like. I’m twenty-four. I’ve never been in a relationship. I’m terrified by the idea of being alone. And I think that this desperation comes out in my energy. The last girl I dated told me that I just needed to ‘let it flow,’ and ‘see what happens.’ But I don’t know how to do that. I tried too hard to please her. I wanted to make her fall in love with me. I had to know for sure that we were together because she felt like my last chance to not be alone. My anxiety ended up ruining everything. When I finally get a girlfriend, I’m not sure how it will feel. Maybe it will be great. Or maybe then I’ll just be terrified of losing her.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny(3/3) “The night I deserted was the most frightening moment of my life. The guerrillas would have killed me if I’d been discovered. I ran away in the middle of the night. I found a road and hitched a ride with an oil truck from Ecuador. I tried to cross the border but the army arrested me. I thought for sure I would be executed. But they gave me the chance to demobilize. The first thing I wanted to do was see my family. It was too dangerous to return home so I sent for them. I thought my father would push me away, but he was very happy to see me. My sisters told me that my disappearance had been very hard on him. He had gotten very sick. I’ll always live with that regret, but we were able to spend four years together before he passed away. I’ve rebuilt my life from scratch. Leaving the guerrillas was like being born again. I had no skills. There was a lot of prejudice against me. I had to work as a waitress and go to school at night. But I’m almost finished with law school now. And even though it took a lot of suffering to get here, I finally have the life that I imagined as a young girl.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny(2/3) “I was the youngest one in the camp. I felt very happy at first. I didn’t have to cook anymore. I was having new experiences. The guerrillas taught me rules. They taught me how to use weapons. They told me that we were fighting for the poor. All of it sounded very good. But then basic training began and it was very difficult. I started to miss my family. My father’s birthday came around, and I could not stop thinking about him. They sent me to another camp because my father kept searching for me. I spent eight years with the guerillas. We lived in the mountains. I slept on the ground. I didn’t get a salary. The fighting was continuous. The army would bomb us day and night. And I didn’t speak to my family for a full seven years. I always wondered what happened to them. Finally it got to be too much, and I decided to desert.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny(1/3) “I knew nothing about the guerrillas before I joined them. The only thing I knew was that they lived better than me. I grew up on a farm in a rural area. We were very poor. My mother abandoned our family so I had to take care of my younger siblings. My father was a good man, but he didn’t give me any liberties. He didn’t let me go to town. He didn’t let me go to school. He didn’t let me have a boyfriend. I wanted freedom, and the guerrillas seemed like my only way out. They used to drive by our farm in their jeeps. They seemed powerful. Even the women wore camouflage. One day the guerrillas stopped by our farm to buy some chickens, and I told them I wanted to join. I was only thirteen years old. They told me to meet them at a certain spot at 5 AM the next morning. I didn’t even say ‘goodbye’ to my father. They told me that I was never allowed to speak to my family again.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“We’ve been at war in this country for over fifty years. There have been hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of victims. So a lot of people don’t like the work that I do. I manage a reintegration program for ex-combatants. I’m trying to take away the main tool of war-- human beings. We can’t punish everyone who fought against us. We can’t jail them all. That will only divide us further. So we must find a way to reconcile with the 60,000 ex-combatants that live among us. We must educate them. We must find them jobs. If we reject and stigmatize them, we will always be at war. Reconciliation is a very hard task. There are a lot of open wounds in this country. People don’t want to forgive. Ex-combatants are often viewed as monsters. My job is to show that their blood is like ours. If we can’t break the idea of ‘good’ and ‘evil,’ we will always be divided. Reconciliation is the only way to change the course of our history.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“I’m unemployed right now, but it’s my own decision. I’m trying to rethink my life. I’ve been a biology teacher for the past seven years. I’d wake up at 5:30 AM every day and wouldn’t get home until after 5 PM. Then I’d spend the evening preparing lessons or grading exams. Teaching was beautiful but I didn’t like the philosophy of the school. The focus was on being as productive as possible. The kids were stressed. They had no time to be children. I just didn’t feel that life should be like that. It can’t always be about growing, growing, growing. There have to be cycles. So I’m trying to take a step back. I’m trying to enrich myself without having an exact objective. I’m reading, and doing yoga, and participating in a dance group. But it’s been hard to appreciate the moment. I’ve always felt such a pressure to work. And when I’m not producing, it’s hard to escape the feeling that I’m doing something wrong.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“My father never valued my mother. She did everything for him. She worked all day, then she came home to cook dinner. My father just came home to sleep. She’d bring him his food on a tray. Everything had to be perfect: right colors, right napkins, everything. But he’d still call her names. He’d get drunk and yell at her for nothing. My mother was submissive and accepted it all. She’d even get mad at me if I tried to intervene. Eventually my father had an affair with our neighbor. And two years ago he left our home to be with her. Recently I spoke to him on the phone. He sounded depressed. He’d just broken up with the woman. He told me that he’d given her everything, but she still left him. He’d cooked for her, he’d treated her well, and he’d bought her whatever she wanted. But nothing was enough. I asked him if he realized what life was teaching him. He had no answer.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“I’m really bothered by people using cocaine. I get angry when I see people doing it for fun. So many horrible things have happened in my country just so people can have ‘fun.’ Cocaine was the motor behind the war in Colombia. It financed the drug lords, the paramilitary, and the guerillas. It paid for the bombs, and the guns, and the kidnappings. It corrupted our government. It ruined our reputation. There isn’t a family in Colombia that hasn’t been hurt. All of us lost friends and family members. And this violence was funded by people who use cocaine. Yet none of them feel responsible for what happened." (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“My mother abandoned me as an infant. My father left when I was seven, and a year later I began working as a maid. My earliest memories are cooking and cleaning. When I turned seventeen, I got a job on a construction site. I met a much older man there. I thought he was very handsome. And he was so nice to me. He’d bring me flowers, and apples, and oranges. If anyone was aggressive toward me, he would defend me. He made me feel whole. It was the first time that I’d ever felt truly happy. When I found out I was pregnant, I was so excited to tell him. I thought I would finally have a family. He’d always told me that he wanted to be with me. But when I gave him the news, he said: ‘I have a wife and children. We can never be together.’ Even now it hurts to remember. It hurt me more than not having parents." (Medellín, Colombia)humansofny“My sister was murdered when I was twelve years old. Her husband killed her because of jealousy. After that it was just me and my mom. I stopped studying. I became the black sheep of the family. I left the house and went my own way. There was a gang in the neighborhood. They gave me a place to live. They gave me work. They gave me marijuana and cocaine. I was always high. My job was to collect protection money from local businesses. There were five of us who made the rounds. When I turned fourteen they told me I was ready to ‘test the knife.’ There was a shopkeeper named Maria. Her husband was a pain in the ass. He would always scream at us and call us sons of bitches. So we stabbed him over and over. There was blood everywhere. I felt like throwing up. Afterwards I felt empty inside. So I just did more drugs. And the way I looked at it—if my sister got killed, why shouldn’t other people die? At least that’s how I always justified it to myself.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“We've been dating for a year and a half. It’s been a wonderful relationship but recently it’s changed a lot. I feel like I’m the one holding it together. I’m the one that calls. I’m the one that texts. We used to talk every day, but now she’s not even trying. Maybe she just feels smothered. Maybe she’s testing to see if I’ll stick around. I just don’t know. I can’t decipher what she wants. When I ask her directly, her answers are never precise. She keeps saying: ‘I’ll think about it.’ So I keep giving her one last try—over and over again. I just want to get things back to the way they used to be.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“I gave the last nine years of my life to my job. It was all I did. My work made me feel ‘needed.’ I was an accountant and I could do things that nobody else could do. My bosses kept telling me how important I was to the company. But one day they asked me to ‘touch up’ some numbers to make them look better. And I realized I was giving them way more of my time than they deserved—so I quit. The first thing I did was rest. The second thing I did was repair the relationships that I’d been neglecting. I reached out to old friends. I arranged to be with them physically, and not just over texts or Facebook. At first I was nervous because I didn’t know what we’d talk about. It had been so long. But it was easy. One of them had just gotten a scholarship. Another was becoming a father. So much had happened in their lives that I had missed. It felt so good to reconnect. For nine years I’d been focusing on numbers. It wasn’t real. Now I’m connecting with people again, and I feel like my feet are back on the ground.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“I didn’t even really like animals. But my daughter said she wanted a pet. So I brought home this kitten, and told my daughter: ‘It’s your responsibility. I’m not going to get involved.’ But now the kitten loves me more than the girl. I call him JJ. He’s always the first one to greet me when I come home. When I leave for work, he lays on my flip-flops by the door. He always wants to be with me. Right now we’re coming back from a trip to the store. My daughter is a little jealous. She’s always trying to steal him from me.” (Medellín, Colombia)humansofny“It was a slip. The first thing I thought about was an abortion. I was only fifteen at the time. But after getting my ear chewed off, and all of the bitching, and all of the scolding, I decided to take responsibility. My daughter is three now. I’ve had to give up so much. I can’t go to university. I can’t go out, or go on trips. Now my life is nothing but a routine. I’m a slave to paying rent. I work seven days a week at a casino for minimum wage. I have to support my grandmother and sisters. My mother left the house in December to live with a man. I never talk about any of this. I keep to myself because nobody cares. Even if I’m happy—nobody cares. I only worry about my daughter’s happiness. I only think about her future. I have hope for her. But not for me.” (Medellín, Colombia)humansofny“There was a lot of sickness in my house. My wife has heart problems and is connected to oxygen. I was drinking a lot. Everyone kept to themselves and stayed in their rooms. But one day I had a prophecy in the church that I would have a very big happiness. The prophecy said that someone was going to come and fill all the voids of my home. A few weeks later my daughter was pregnant. And here he is! He’s consumed my entire life. I get to watch him every afternoon. I want him to see me as the happy grandpa who never says ‘no.’ I don’t even drink anymore. He’s brought our entire family together. Recently my wife told me: ‘I can tell you are so happy. Your eyes are always sparkling now.’” (Medellín, Colombia)humansofny“I’m a single father. I’ve had my son since he was two. His mother and I used to consume a lot of drugs, but I did a full stop when he was born. He saved my life in a lot of ways. But his mother never got her life together. She’ll show up sporadically but then disappear for months at a time. I try to fill in the holes with as much love as possible, but I know it bothers him. He’s just not at an age where he can fully express his feelings. I try to protect him from all the volatility of my own life. I broke up with my girlfriend yesterday. And I’m sitting here wondering how I’m going to explain it to him. I actually waited a long time before introducing them because I didn’t want her to be another absence in his life. But now it didn’t work out. And I’ve got to figure out how to break that down for him." (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“I want to be an archeologist. That’s a person who explores the desert and looks for dinosaur eggs and Egyptians. I’ve been thinking a lot about it. I’m already watching Jurassic Park and collecting dinosaur stickers. And once I found a piece of coral in the shape of a heart.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“I met him at the company where we worked. We went out dancing. He was kind to me. Things started changing after we got married. I’d rush home from work so I could cook for the whole family. But if the food wasn’t ready on time, he’d get upset. One day his mistress came to the door to tell me about their affair. I was pregnant at the time. He came back from work and found her in the house, and he hit me so hard that he broke my face. I still have the scars. The abuse got worse and worse. I stayed for a long time. At first I thought marriages were supposed to be like that. And by the time I learned otherwise, he wouldn’t let me go. He’d lock me in the house. He’d threaten me by putting a gun to our son’s head. When I finally got a restraining order, I was in such bad shape that I checked into a mental institution. Now I’m alone and it’s the happiest time of my life. I’m able to work. I can eat whatever I want. I can go out whenever I want. Even sitting here and smoking a cigarette is a joy for me.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“I’ve been sitting here for four hours thinking about what I should do. I don’t want to go home. I fucked up again. I’ve been a drug addict my whole life. But I was clean for three months. I got a job at a call center. I was doing well. Then as soon as I got my paycheck, I went out drinking with some coworkers. Just a normal thing. But then I tried a little coke, went on a binge, and lost my job. Same story as always. And now I don’t want to go home. I live with my mother. She’s never lost faith in me. My brother was killed in the army so I’m her only son. She doesn’t deserve this. She was so happy that I had a job. She’d convinced herself that things were finally going to be OK. And I’ve got to go home and tell her what happened. And I don’t want to do it. She’s not even going to be mad. She’ll just be so hurt. Then she’ll ask me if I’ve eaten.” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“I was the best student in my high school. I put so much pressure on myself. I never failed a class. But I got sick during 10th grade and I started to fall behind. That’s when the panic attacks began. One day the teacher handed me my grade report, and I couldn’t breathe. My heart was beating very fast. I felt disconnected. I saw people trying to talk to me but I couldn’t hear them. Eventually I passed out and woke up in the infirmary. The attacks were almost daily after that. Last year I started college. And I can’t be the best student here no matter how hard I try. Everyone is so talented. My panic attacks got so bad that I had to cancel my first semester. But now I’m working on acknowledging my anxiety. I used to try to hide it. I would log off social media. I wouldn’t answer calls. I thought that if nobody knew, it didn’t exist. But the more I talk about my problem, the more I realize that other people experience similar things. So I’m trying to express it more. I had a great teacher who told me: ‘Instead of letting anxiety keep you from doing your art, let it be the thing that motivates your art.’” (Bogotá, Colombia)humansofny“I do yoga at the senior center. But it’s not advanced enough for me. I can do the cat, the dog, the bridge, the snake… all of it. My class is filled with younger people in their sixties and seventies. They are always complaining: ‘My hip! My diabetes!’ But you’ll never hear a word out of me.” (Medellín, Colombia)humansofny“We’re doing great now. But this time last year we found a tumor on her spine and lungs. She seemed like a perfectly healthy child-- just like now. But one day she had a very bad episode of pneumonia. And the doctors told us it was cancer. But Carolina was so brave the entire time. She made us so proud. She wasn’t afraid of the doctors. She stuck out her arm when it was time for treatment. She was even brave during the surgery. It was over before Carolina even realized—wasn’t it? But those were the longest four hours of Mommy’s life.” (Montevideo, Uruguay)humansofny“I didn’t find out that I liked teaching until I was 45 years old. I was working as a graphic designer, and I volunteered to teach a group of kids from a poor region. It was part of a special program aimed at teenagers who’d dropped out of school. At first I was scared. Many of them had behavior problems. Some of them were addicted to drugs. One of them even brought a knife to class. But I discovered that I could really connect with them. Sometimes I could even reach kids that refused to talk to psychologists. I learned that I could transform someone’s life just by listening. The program only lasted six months, but it gave me such sense of satisfaction. I’ve been training for the last two years to become a real teacher. My test results just arrived and I got assigned to the school I wanted. I’m going to teach Portuguese to elementary school students." (Montevideo, Uruguay)humansofny“She doesn't like my farts. She won't even let me eat cabbage anymore. I tell her that it’s worse to hide them because you'll get caught anyway.” (Montevideo, Uruguay)humansofny“I was thirteen when my mother started to change. My parents had just gotten divorced. My mother should have been sad but she kept going out to dance. Sometimes she’d stay out all night. She became very talkative and had a hard time concentrating. She’d say that she wanted to sell everything and travel the world. Then she got depressed. She stayed in her room. She gained a lot of weight. I actually preferred the depression, because at least then she’d stay at home. The manic phases got worse and worse. They are so bad now that she has to go to the clinic. Then the depression will come again and she can’t stop crying. Last October she returned to her normal self. It lasted about a week. I didn’t leave her side. We took walks every day. I always tell her that she gave us the best childhood. She was always there for us. She made crafts with us. She taught me how to cook. She would even throw birthday parties for my toys. I still think I’m very lucky. I hate seeing her like this, but she’s still the best mom in the world.” (Montevideo, Uruguay)humansofny“I grew up in Spain right after the civil war. When I was eleven I was sent to a Catholic boarding school. They fed me and sheltered me. But they only taught me religion. They were training me to be a priest. I was taught to fear God. I was taught to fear the outside world. I was taught to fear everything. I left the grounds one day when I was twenty-eight. I went to a barbershop and got my hair cut by a French woman. I had never really spoken to a woman before. She told me I was cute. That same day I bought a newspaper. It was the first time I’d ever bought something with my own money. When I returned to the school, I was changed. I had discovered freedom. I began to realize their lies and so I wasn’t useful to them anymore. A few months later I met a woman in church and fell in love. We got married and had three children. I left all of it behind, except for the fear. Sometimes I still feel very afraid for no reason. That will always be a part of me.” (Montevideo, Uruguay)humansofny“I have Asperger’s, but I wasn’t diagnosed for a long time. I was a polite child. I found it easy to concentrate at school. I had some problems socializing but that’s pretty normal for children. But my problem is that I’m too transparent. I kept trying to fix people. I could never just stand aside and let things be. I kept telling people what was wrong with their lives. I thought I was helping them. I just wanted everything to be in order. But I accidentally stirred up so much negativity. Now I’m sometimes afraid to talk to people. I don’t want to cause any problems. There’s no danger in what I just said-- is there?” (Montevideo, Uruguay)humansofny“In twenty minutes I lost what I had been building for forty years. It happened while I was at work. My mother tried to turn on the stove and it caught fire. I lost everything. All my possessions and photographs were destroyed. Everything seemed hopeless. I didn’t sleep for many nights after it happened. But so many people came to help me. My friends let me live with them for months. My neighbors helped me clean the site and we began to rebuild. People were giving me extra materials. Twenty-five volunteers showed up from the local construction union. The experience changed me. I see people differently now. I thought that the world was full of people asking for things that they didn’t need. So I just focused on taking care of myself. As soon as my house is finished, I’m doing whatever I can to help people.” (Montevideo, Uruguay)humansofny“She keeps bringing home animals. I try to tell her that our house is too small for more pets. She keeps saying, ‘Our house is small but our hearts are big.’ She brings them home while I’m working. Then by the time I get home, the kids have already given them names, and there’s nothing I can do. It started with one bird. But then the bird got ‘lonely.’ So now we have four birds. And eleven hamsters. And rabbits. And fish. Now she's started texting me pictures of dogs that don’t have a home. It’s only a matter of time.” (Montevideo, Uruguay)humansofny“I downsized my life to one large suitcase, and I’ve been traveling non-stop for seven years. Everyone’s happy. My ex-wife got the real estate. And I got my peace.” (Montevideo, Uruguay)humansofny(2/2) “It’s very difficult to talk about adoption on the Internet. No matter what you say, somebody will say the opposite. We adopted Axel last January. He had spent three years in the orphanage. The staff loved him and were desperate to find him a family. We were the only ones on the list for an older child. We knew it was going to be difficult. I had read a lot of literature on the difficulties of overcoming early neglect. And we’re making progress. We’re teaching him that our home is a permanent home. We are learning that touch is a good thing. We are learning that hugs can make you feel better. And I’m learning to not put so much pressure on myself. At first we felt so much pressure to love him. It would hurt me when he didn’t want to be hugged. I wanted to immediately love him as much as our biological son. And I felt guilty because it wasn’t happening right away. But then I stopped pressuring myself. My husband and I decided to focus on basics. We focused on providing food, shelter, and education. And once we stopped pressuring ourselves to feel a certain way, we discovered that we already loved him quite a bit. It’s a rollercoaster. But I feel like we’re heading up. Adopting an older child is difficult, but every child is difficult. My biological child was difficult. Only this time, after several months, I’m sleeping through the night, my boobs don’t hurt, and I don’t smell like diapers. So I feel like I should be doing a victory dance." (Santiago, Chile)humansofnyOne thing that makes me most proud of Humans of New York is the warmth of the comment section. There are exceptions of course, but generally the responses to each story are thoughtful and encouraging. I joke that Humans of New York is followed by the nicest 25 million people on the Internet. Often the comment section will take on a life and a narrative of it's own. During my visit to Santiago, I received an email from a woman named Victoria (aka Sofia) who shared a story about how her life was changed by the support of the HONY community. Very proud to pass it along: (1/2) “We’d been trying to adopt for several years. We didn’t want an infant. The waiting list was too long. Plus we had one child already, so we’d already been through the experience of having a baby. We wanted other couples to have that opportunity. So we decided to adopt an older child. But everything went wrong. Our application was invalidated after three years because my husband got a job in Ecuador. When we tried to start over, the government went on strike. Then we lost all our possessions in a storage facility fire. So I was about to give up. I couldn’t do it anymore. The process was stressing me out so much that it was affecting my biological child. Then right when I was about to give up, I saw a Humans of New York post about a man who’d grown up in a group home. I thought: ‘He could have been my child.’ I wrote about my difficulties in the comment section, and hundreds of people responded. Everyone told me not to give up. My phone was buzzing all day. The ones that touched me most were the stories from adopted children. It gave me the strength to go on.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny(3/3) “The doctors discovered a tumor on Mom’s spine in 2007. She spent four years being really sick. First she couldn’t walk. Then she couldn’t move her arms, or her hands. When she died she could only move her head. My father took care of her. I don’t think there was emotion involved. I think he was just concerned about doing the correct thing. He’d openly say: ‘I hate this so much.’ But he did it. Mom died three years ago. When she realized she didn’t have much time, she really encouraged me to get closer to my siblings. She also encouraged me to travel. She’d say: ‘Go explore. Forget about me. You’re different. I want you to find people like you.’ She was always so worried about me being alone. And sometimes I do feel alone now that she’s gone. I don’t know who to call when I accomplish something. I miss her so much. But I always try to be like her. My whole life I’ve tried to be like her. I can be shy. I can isolate myself. Sometimes I remind myself of my father. But I have always tried to be my mother.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny(2/3) “One day I found a box of old love letters that my dad had written to my mom. They were romantic letters. They said nice things. I was surprised because I’d never seen him say those things. All of that had disappeared before I was born. My father had never told me anything about himself. Everything I know about him, I learned from my mom. She told me that the romance had been an act. She told me that she later realized he was a very cold man. But Mom always told me that we shouldn’t blame him. She said he had a very rough childhood. His father abandoned the family when he was very young. His mother married another man, and sent him to live with an uncle. She raised an entirely new family and left my father behind. He had a very lonely childhood. So my mother always told me: ‘You must not blame your father.’ She told me that always. Especially after she got sick.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny(1/3) “In every sense she was the perfect mom. She always tried to encourage me when I was younger. I was really shy, so she always worried about me being alone. She would ask things like: ‘Have you met anyone at school?’ or ‘Does anyone like the same things you do?’ She always knew when something was wrong. I never had to tell her anything. But Dad was the opposite. He ignored me. He never did anything wrong. He wasn’t an alcoholic. He wasn’t violent. He was just nothing—like a chair or a piece of furniture. His only idea of fatherhood was going to work. He never reacted to anything in my life. Not the good things, or the bad things. He didn’t react to me staying out late. He didn’t react when I experimented with drugs and alcohol. I made my mom very sad by trying to get my dad’s attention. A few years ago I got hit by a car. When I woke up from my coma, I called home to tell my parents what happened. My father answered the phone. I told him everything. All he said was: ‘Your mother is asleep right now. You can call her tomorrow.’ That hurt me worse than being hit by the car.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny“The older my daughters get, the more indifferent they become towards me. They don’t call me. They don’t come see me. They don’t do anything unless I try. I left the house when the oldest was six. I found a new partner. Their mother was very angry so she restricted my visits. Now they are teenagers and they seem so distant from me. I have nobody in my life right now. I have nobody to share things with, so I’d really like a relationship with them. But nothing seems to work. I pick them up from school. I speak to them every day. I try to take them to my apartment a couple times each week. But even if they are physically with me, it’s like they aren’t there. They don’t even say ‘I love you.’ It hurts. I guess they are still angry that I left. Maybe one day they will have their own relationships. And if they fail, they’ll learn that everything can’t be perfect.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny"He gets emotional when he drinks. He starts crying every time an animal dies on the nature shows."
"I can't help it. I'm a Pisces." (Santiago, Chile)humansofny“I came out at the age of twenty. I was trying to understand myself. It was a discovery time. I was thin and flexible. I loved to dance. I started performing in a trans show at a gay club. I wore high heels and sang Janet Jackson songs. It was wonderful. I did my own choreography. My friend Carlos designed my costumes. Carlos didn’t charge me money. He wanted me to be a success. We weren’t lovers or anything. He was more like an older brother. He was huge, and coarse, and a little bit of a bully. One night I was waiting backstage and Carlos came running into the green room. He told me that there was a fire and we needed to leave. He had been standing by the exit when the fire broke out, but he still came back to get me. We ran down a dark hallway to the emergency exit. The hallway was filled with smoke and there was a crowd of people pressed against the door. They couldn’t get it open. It was chained from the outside. Carlos lifted me up on top of the crowd, and people began passing me forward. It was completely dark. I held Carlos’s hand for as long as possible. Someone broke a window and I got pulled into the street. I was completely naked because so many people had been grabbing my clothes. When I finally turned around, I saw the whole club engulfed in flames. Over twenty people died that night. Carlos was one of them.” (Valparaíso, Chile)humansofny“Our first house was destroyed by an earthquake in 1970. We barely made it out alive. We lost everything. I was only nineteen. He was twenty-two. We had two young babies and a third one on the way. When we found this place, it was just an abandoned lot. We built our house from the ground up. We lived in a tent and tried to save on everything. We carried wood and stones up the hill by ourselves. We collected free sand from far away. We barely slept. It took us a year to build. And we’ve been adding to it ever since.” (Valparaíso, Chile)humansofny“The only time my mother spoke to us was when she was drunk. And she’d tell us we were unwanted. She convinced me to drink with her when I was ten. She told me that it would make me feel better. I started smoking crack when I was twelve. I never learned to read or write. I lost my entire childhood. My friends and I would break into cars, steal whatever we could, and use the money to buy more. It made me feel good and I wanted to feel good all the time. And nobody ever tried to stop me.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny“My mother was the boss of the whole family. Everyone asked for her opinion on everything. She built this business from the ground up. She made all the decisions, she set the budget, and she ordered our supplies. I just helped with simple tasks like collecting money. She passed away six years ago and left the entire business to me. I was lost. I was so nervous and shy. I’d never shown any initiative. I had no idea what to do. But I figured it out. I learned that I could be assertive and make decisions. I’ve completely remodeled the place. And the business is growing. We only had two employees when my mother passed away. Now I have twelve.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny“Being a grandfather is quite different. It’s much looser than being a parent. I don’t have to always worry about providing patterns of behavior. I just get to give her little kisses. I was allowed to borrow her this morning so we are walking through the park. It’s our personal pastime. She likes to look at the dogs and birds. Today we saw some blackbirds which was quite exciting.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny“One night I was talking with my wife about how perfect our life was. It was twenty-five years ago. We had four children. We’d just saved enough money to buy a new house. We felt so lucky. I remember she said: ‘What if God takes something from us?’ The next day I came home from work and found my wife screaming. She was holding our oldest son. He’d stuck his hand in the washing machine and electrocuted himself. We couldn’t revive him. We rushed to the hospital but the doctors said there was nothing they could do. I begged them to try. My friends from the church came and we all started to pray. And the doctors were able to bring him back to life. He became a case study. Today he’s 29. He has learning problems. He can’t read or write. But he has a job as a security guard. He enjoys his life. And to this day, I believe in miracles.”(Valparaíso, Chile)humansofny“I had to leave Venezuela. I’ve lived there my entire life. My parents are buried there. But five months ago I had to leave. It just got too dangerous. One day I was attacked while walking home from the supermarket, and I woke up on the ground. I’ve had guns pulled on me several times. I just couldn’t do it anymore. I’m trying to start a new life but it’s impossible to find a job. I’ve applied to about sixty shops so far but nobody will give me a chance. They think I’m too old. I tell them to try me for just a few days, but they won’t. I did find one part time job cleaning toilets and picking up trash. These are things I’ve never done in my life. But right now I can’t afford to be picky.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny“When my business started doing well, I made the mistake of hiring my friends. Now I have no business and no friends.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny"He fell in love with me because I used to have a huge ass." (Santiago, Chile)humansofny"I'm his only daughter. And this is his only grandson." (Santiago, Chile)humansofny“I didn’t want to take the pill anymore and I thought I could control things on my own. That was a mistake. I started to cry when I found out I was pregnant. I was terrified by the thought of the baby being 100% dependent on me. What if I wanted to travel? Or go to graduate school? Or just get the fuck away and not talk to anyone? At first I wanted to get an abortion. I even called the hotline but I never went through with it. Now my son is my life. I’ve totally abandoned myself. I broke up with the father after a year. He has a new girlfriend now. He gets to have his life, and see our son whenever he chooses. He gets to go out. He gets to go through an emo phase and decide not to work. It’s unfair. He can play with our son then go back to his life whenever he wants. I get left with the hard part. My life is my son now. And I love him, so that’s a wonderful thing. But it’s a terrible thing too.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny“If I did something wrong, it was out of ignorance. Maybe I was too strict with him. I was in the army for twenty-seven years so that’s all I knew. He’s really pulled away lately. He doesn’t go to church. He doesn’t care about school. He thinks he knows everything and that we don’t understand anything about his life. So he always locks himself in his room. Recently he told me that he hated me. And I lost my temper and told him that he was no longer my son. Both of us apologized but things are still difficult. I think he’s just very uncomfortable with life. Maybe he feels like the black sheep of the family. My wife and I are professors and both his sisters are doing well. I just don’t know what to do. I’m trying to pull back now and be more lenient. I punish him less. I stopped taking away his phone when he doesn’t do his schoolwork. I don’t want him to rebel any more, but when I back off, it’s hard to be strict again and provide structure. So I just don’t know. I’m reading books to figure out how to reach him. I want him to understand that it doesn’t matter to me if he’s successful in a professional way. I just want him to have some sort of purpose.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny“I’m going to tell you a family secret. We hated each other in college. We were in the same history class. We argued over everything. I’d make a point in class, and she would argue the exact opposite. At the end of the year, our professor forced us to work together on our thesis project. Both of us asked him if we could choose different partners, but he refused. We made that professor the godfather of our children.” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny“My mother was cold, harsh, and demanding. But she was the best cook ever!” (Santiago, Chile)humansofny“It's been over a year since my divorce. I'd been married for fifteen years. I was pretty beaten down. Some days I would feel so lonely that I couldn’t even sleep. A friend of mine from work told me to download a dating app. I tried for a long time but nobody was answering me. It was making me feel worse. I wanted to delete it but my friend convinced me to keep trying. Then on January 28th, I saw her picture and gave her a ‘heart.’ And she sent me a message. I said: ‘Wow, this is really happening.’ It's like she's an angel who came from heaven to bring light to my life. I love my chocolate bonbon.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“If there was anyone who cared about me, God already killed them. My mother died when I was eleven. She had heart problems because of all the drugs. These two tears are for her. I can’t even remember her face. I remember going to her funeral but I don’t remember her face. When I dream about her, all I hear is her voice. There’s no dialogue or anything. It’s just her voice, saying: ‘Come here, Jeff. Come here, Jeff.’ After she died, all that mattered was surviving. Nobody showed me love. Maybe things would have been different if I had parents. Maybe I’d have a place to live. Maybe I’d have accomplished something. So I don’t feel guilty for anything. Why should I? God doesn’t feel guilty for killing my mom.” (2/2) (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“Drug dealing was delicious. I had a pistol, I had girls, I had funk. Everyone saw me as important. I helped defend the favela and maintain the rules. You couldn’t rape, you couldn’t kill, you couldn’t hit a woman without permission. Everyone knew the rules and nobody could break them. Or else you might get erased and fed to the crocodiles. I don’t have a heart. I’m cold blooded. My adrenaline goes up-- but that’s it. Afterwards it’s back to nothing. People feared me. People respected me. But then I got set up. One of the 'higher-ups' wanted my girlfriend. So he accused me of stealing. It was all lies. He even tried to say I smoked crack. They beat me with sticks. They broke my fingers. They knocked out my teeth. They took my girl, my clothes, even my dog. And now I live on the streets. I’ve got nothing left. I used to get everything for free. Now if I ask for food, I’ll get chased away.” (1/2) (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“I was walking up the hill with my soccer ball one night and the police and drug dealers started to shoot at each other. I jumped over the wall and ran all the way home. I told my mom what happened, and she got so mad at me. I told her that I was just playing soccer and I didn’t do anything wrong. Then she started to cry. And I started to cry. And then we went to the church and prayed for a very long time.” (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“My father and his cousin created the first drug dealing territory in this favela back in the 60’s. It was a very violent place back then. Before my father came along—anyone with a weapon had absolute power. There was no law. There was no police to turn to. There were many homicides, burglaries, and rapes. My father played an important role. It was a cruel role, but it was important. He had to clean up the favela. The criminals weren’t just going to leave. They had to be erased. And my father did that job. He was a tiny man. He dressed well. He was educated, and polite, and humble. To many people he wasn’t a good person. But he was a righteous person. I didn’t follow in my father’s footsteps. I became a photographer and an activist. But I don’t see my father as a bad man. He brought rules to this place. And today’s drug traffickers enforce those same rules. This favela is one of the safest places in the city. Stealing is not allowed here. You can’t rape. You can’t hit a woman. Yes, there is violence. Because the police are always fighting the drug traffickers. But if the drug traffickers were gone tomorrow, the favela would be a far more dangerous place.” (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“Rio was the biggest slave port in world history. Two million slaves arrived in this city—five times more than the entire American South. Favelas were built because the government didn’t want to provide basic services to the descendants of slaves. So these descendants were forced to build their own communities. Favelas are unregulated. They’re poorly serviced. But don’t call them ‘slums.’ That’s a lazy translation and it’s unfair to the people who live here. The word ‘slum’ implies that all favelas are the same. The word ‘slum’ ignores 120 years of improvement that these residents have made to their communities. And the word ‘slum’ makes it easier to ignore these communities. That's exactly what the government wants. Because if favelas aren’t viewed as real neighborhoods, then their residents don't deserve real services. So please don’t use the word ‘slum.’ Because it only helps to encourage that narrative." (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“Neither of us are working right now, but we make do. We borrow food and diapers from the neighbors. Since we don’t have money to go out, we’ll just play with the baby. The other day we made a swimming pool out of a bucket. We go on walks. A lot of times we just lay in bed together. We try not to argue but it’s hard. When we get nervous, we get stressed, and it’s so hard not to argue. He blames himself when we run out of food, and sometimes he gets so nervous that he thinks we’ll never find a way out. He shuts down, and he locks himself away, and he won’t talk. I can handle us not having enough food. What hurts me the most is when he doesn’t want to talk about it.” (Salvador, Brazil)humansofny“My mother died shortly after I was born. So my aunt is the one who raised me. I’m the black sheep of the family. I used to do drugs. I raced motorcycles through the streets. I destroyed my face. I lost my teeth. I spent eighteen months in prison because I accidentally killed someone with my bike. My aunt is the only one who never turned away from me. Right now I’m going to fix a bike by her house, and I’m going to bring her some bananas. When I walk in the door, she’s going to insist I eat breakfast. She’s going to hide the sweets because I have diabetes. She’s going to take the skin off the chicken because she knows it’s my favorite part. And she’s going to ask me if I’ve been taking my medication. Recently she got very sick. And I’m scared. Because I can’t imagine life without her. If something ever happened to my aunt, there will be nobody left to worry about me.” (Salvador, Brazil)humansofny“I didn’t enjoy life very much because I was always sacrificing for the future. My whole life was about studying and working. I worked so many jobs. I went to college. I got my MBA. I didn’t travel very much. I didn’t get married. I didn’t have kids. All I wanted to do was feel secure. But I’ve had bad health problems my entire life. So I haven’t been able to save. And two weeks ago I lost my job. The job market is brutal when you’re my age. People don’t think you can learn new things. I can’t even get work as a clerk because they think I’m overqualified. I have no money now. I can barely afford food and transportation. I’ve spent my whole life sacrificing—just to one day feel secure. But it seems like it was all for nothing. And I have no idea what to do.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“After twenty years of marriage, I caught my husband cheating and had to leave him. But honestly, I wish I’d gotten my divorce much sooner. For so long I’d been denying my right to be an individual. The family had become so much more important than my dreams. I had small joys back then: getting a brand new car, having our 20th anniversary, when my son got into college. But now the intensity is so much greater. I’m doing all the things I love to do. I studied nutrition and got a job at the hospital. I buy whatever I want. I watch cartoons. I never miss a Shrek movie. I go to the orchestra at least once a month. And right now I’m coming back from a class on finance. I’m going to invest in the stock market and get a house by the beach.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“I grew up in a rural area. I came to the city when I was fourteen. I wanted to expand my horizons. All I had was a suitcase and my courage. My parents tried to stop me. My mom found my first bus ticket and ripped it into pieces. But I told her that I wasn’t going to give up, and eventually my father drove me to the station. At first I worked as a maid in people’s houses. One of the people I worked for was the owner of a major newspaper, and his wife helped me go to high school. Then I went to college, where I met this handsome guy beside me. Now I run a small business selling tapioca. I’m even able to help support my parents back home. But I will admit that I’m getting restless again. I think I want to live in another country.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“When I was seventeen I had my first kid. The mother was addicted to drugs. I was in a tough situation. I was raising the child on my own. And I received an invitation to help rob a truck. I thought: ‘I’ll just do this today, and then it will be over.’ I was the lookout. The police caught us while we were running away. Prison is a place that’s impossible to explain. I was there for 2.5 years before I even had a trial. I saw a guy being stabbed. I saw a guy slit his own throat with a razor. During the night I used to sit by the window, and look at the stars, and think: ‘Not even an animal likes to stay in a cage.’ All my friends forgot about me. Only my mother visited. I’ll never go back there. Right now I’m in a tough situation again. I have no job. But people at the church help me with food. And I sit here and help people park their cars. It’s only a few pennies, but I’d rather do this than steal from someone else who needs the money.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“We go to the same school. I asked her out three months ago. I took her to a movie because it seemed casual, and I didn’t think she’d be expecting anything. When we left the theater, I handed her a poem that told the story of our friendship, including our trip to the movie. But the last line of the poem just said: ‘Look at me.’ When she looked up, I recited four more lines: 'In addition to this / we are such good friends. / Will you take one more step / and be my girlfriend?’” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“I was raised in a very strict family. My mom was like a sergeant. I married way too young. I had no life experience. I was married for twenty-five years and my late husband never let me go anywhere by myself. When he died, I had no idea how to live on my own. For fourteen years I’ve been a widow. And I’ve barely left the house. Recently I met this man on the Internet. We kept exchanging pictures. We kept talking on the phone. But I was too scared to meet. He told me: ‘Put your head up high! You are the boss of your life!’ So today I finally agreed to meet. I tried on five different outfits this morning. After I left the house, I went back once more to change my shoes. I was trembling the whole way on the bus. My stomach felt sick. When I finally saw him, it felt like there was a samba school in my heart. I was sweating. The first thing he did was get me some water. Now we’ve spent the whole day together. I feel so relaxed. I feel free. I feel like we’ve known each other for our entire lives.” (Salvador, Brazil)humansofny“I’ve been working as an airline mechanic since a young age. I’m really good at it. I always pick up extra shifts. And it’s good because it’s allowed me to mature and grow. But since I work so much, it’s easy for people to think that things are going well for me. And it’s also been easy for me not to think about things. Now I’m twenty-two and I feel completely lost. I feel like I haven’t spent any time thinking about myself. I’m not good at forming relationships or talking to people. I've never wanted to seem weak because nobody likes people who are sad all the time. So I’ve become a closed-off person. Yesterday we picked groups for a class project, and nobody wanted to be in my group because I work so much. I don’t go to movies. I never even come to the park. This is the first time that I’ve been here. I don’t know-- I just feel so lost right now. I’m searching for something but I don’t know what it is.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“He fell in love with me the first day he met me. He kept calling me princess. He said we were meant to be together because our feet were the same size. Look how embarrassed he’s getting!" (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“You found the right guy. I carried the Olympic torch through this town. I had never even heard of a ‘torch’ before. I mean, I’m not stupid, I figured it out. But I was nervous when I saw it. I had to carry it up the hill. I’m eighty-eight. I thought I might fall down. And there were all these soldiers lined up with guns. Big guns. I thought one of them might shoot me by accident. Everyone was screaming while I ran. Nobody had ever seen anything like it. I was really scared, but I made it. And everybody started hugging me.” (Lençóis, Brazil)humansofny“My husband is ninety-two and he keeps trying to make love to me. I have to swat him away. I had seventeen kids already. That’s all in the past. Whenever he gets out of the shower, he starts singing this song about a woman with long hair that he wants to kiss. He says the song is about me. I tell him: ‘Nope! Not me.’” (Lençóis, Brazil)humansofny“I grew up in a poor neighborhood on the north side of the city. There was a lot of violence. But I didn’t feel the color of my skin very much back then. Even the whites in my neighborhood were poor. We all lived in the same way and everyone seemed equal. My mother always encouraged me to study hard so I could leave the neighborhood. She worked as a maid for a rich family, and she wanted me to live a life like theirs. Eventually I graduated college, got a good job, and moved to a wealthier neighborhood in the south part of the city. I do feel safer— just like I imagined. But I never expected to feel so unwelcome. It can be hard to make friends. I've been called names. I'm made to feel the color of my skin more than I ever did growing up.” (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“When I tried to hug her, she’d tell me it was too hot for hugs. So I learned to stop trying. We never had conversations. I thought it was normal. It was all I knew. I always thought the relationship between a mother and a child was about giving and receiving orders. But when I was ten years old, I went to a friend’s house to do a school project. At first I remember feeling sorry for him. His family was so poor. There was almost nothing in the house. But when we walked inside, his mom gave him such a big hug. And she was so happy to see him. And that was the saddest moment of my life. Because I never knew that was something you could have. My mom still doesn’t hug me. But I think we’re on the way to that. I had an asthma attack recently, and I felt so weak, and she told me I could lay my head in her lap. I can’t explain how special that made me feel.” (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“My father never learned how to talk to people. Everything had to be his way. He hit me a lot. It got really ugly sometimes. It really fucked me up, man. The whole time I thought it was my fault. Maybe it’s nobody fault. Maybe that’s all he knew. Maybe his dad did that. I don’t know. But he put me into some crazy shit. I never talked about it. I've spent my whole life pretending like I'm stronger than I am. But I’ve got to forgive him somehow. Because I deserve some peace.” (Lençóis, Brazil)humansofny“He had a heart attack two years ago. He knows he shouldn’t be drinking. He knows he should be eating better. He has a new granddaughter that he wants to see grow up. But every time I catch him eating something bad, and I try to yell at him, he gets so playful and tender. He calls me his ‘beautiful brunette,’ and he tells me that I’m the love of his life. He says that he’s searching for a giant smile that’s hidden inside me. And it pisses me off because it’s patronizing. And I try so hard to be mad at him. But in the end I always crack, and I end up laughing.” (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“I first started coming out here when I was thirteen years old. I was the only girl in the beginning. It was intimidating. The guys would try to make me angry. They’d call me ‘dyke.’ They’d roll their skateboards in front of me when I was skating. So I started coming out here every day right after school, when the sun was high, and the place was empty. I got better than a lot of them. I started beating them in elimination games. So they respect me now. A lot of girls used to watch from the edges because they were too intimidated to participate. But now that I’m out here every day, some of them have the courage to try.” (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“I’ve detached myself from everyone who tries to tell me what to do." (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“The one I loved most was my last son. My other children were even jealous of our attachment. When he was very young, he would hang out the window and call to me as I left for the office. And when I arrived, I would find his toys in my briefcase. We remained close as he grew older. He was the one who always called me. He was always checking on me. He was always taking me to lunch. But then one day I went to the bank, and a lot of my money was missing. He had been stealing from me. He was falsifying my signature. When I confronted him, he begged on his knees for forgiveness. Then I started getting phone calls. He owed money to people who were threatening to kill him. I went into the slums to find the loan sharks and pay off his debts. I paid them all, with interest. I used to wear nice clothes. I used to have a nice apartment. Now I’m left with nothing but my pension. And my credit is ruined. I sold all my belongings and I’m hiding from him. When I go to sleep at night, I wonder how he is doing. I wonder if he is safe. But I can’t see him. Because if I see him, I will help him again." (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“I want to be a doctor. All I have to do is grow up and ask the hospital if they have room for any more doctors. I’m probably going to wait until I turn twelve. The best part will be using the thing where you listen to your heart-- I love doing that. The worst part will be giving injections because I’m not good at hurting people.” (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“I can get a bit insecure about my health condition. In the beginning I was worried that I wouldn’t be able to give her everything she needs. Because I can’t lift her. I can’t run after her. It takes me longer to do things, so I thought she might get frustrated with me. But none of those worries came true. She’s perfectly fine with our reality. She’s very patient. When we get out of the car, she knows that the wheelchair goes first, then Daddy, then Mommy, then Olga. She’s very happy sitting on my lap. And she loves to lie in bed with us. She even tries to help me. In the house I don’t use my wheelchair because I can walk while holding onto my husband’s shoulders. Olga saw us doing this recently, and she came up behind me and tried to help by pushing my legs.” (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“I met my wife when I was seventeen. I didn’t want to tell her about my schizophrenia. At the time, she liked another guy who had no issues and I didn’t want to ruin my chances. I hid the disease for a long time after we married. I would always find explanations for my strange behavior. I’d make up stories to explain my violent outbursts at work. But it got to be too much. By the time I admitted my disease, it was too late. She got a restraining order a year ago. I had an outburst and I hit her. She has forgiven me for the sake of our children, but they don’t live with me anymore. I’m on five strong medications now. I still have some difficulty controlling the pace of my thoughts. Some thoughts will begin before others end. It’s like my mind is divided. It can be tough to keep both feet in reality. But I don’t want any more problems. I’ve detached myself from everyone. I don’t speak at work. I spend my time alone. It’s my only way to live a normal life.” (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“I’m not going to teach him to sell candies. He’s just out here until it’s time for school. My mom brought me out here as a child. I had nine brothers and sisters. All of us had to sell candies on the street. I started when I was five years old. I never got an education. I’m not able to read very well. This is really all I know. Some people put me down. One lady got mad at me recently and told me that she’d never buy anything from me, and that a supermarket near her house was hiring. I got really depressed. It was hard to put my head up after that. But there are also people out here who support me. I have some friends who walk by and talk to me every day. My friends from the bank told me, ‘Don’t worry about that lady. She doesn’t know you. You’re a great person.’” (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“We met later in life. We’re trying to have a kid but I’m not that young anymore. We’ve been trying for years now. Our families are beginning to really pressure us. I’m sure it’s my problem, not his. I’m starting to accept the idea. I’ve been thinking a lot about adoption lately. If I can have a small human being under my protection—that’s enough. I truly believe that a mother is the person who raises a child. So I don’t mind saying, ‘I can’t have children.’ At least then people stop asking about it." (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny"Just trying to raise a girl in a sexist world." (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“I hated my father for a long time. He was an alcoholic. He was abusive. And he abandoned our family when I was ten years old. My mother had to support seven children on her own. She worked as a housekeeper. My father remarried and became wealthy, but he never gave us a penny. Sometimes we went without food. But we survived. All of my brothers are grown and healthy. My father died recently, and in his final weeks he asked all seven of his sons to come visit him. Only two of us went. The rest were too angry. We mainly just talked about soccer and other small things. He never apologized for what he did. He still wasn’t the kind of person who could put his feelings into the world. But he cried the entire time. I had viewed him as a block of ice for so long. But he seemed human in that moment. He looked so vulnerable lying in his hospital bed. And at that moment I forgave him. Even if he didn’t ask me to.” (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“I got pregnant when I was twenty-two. It wasn’t planned. The father and I weren’t even in a relationship. But I thought I could handle it on my own. I felt like a modern woman. I was in law school. I wanted to be a diplomat. But oh man, it was hard. I wasn’t emotionally prepared to deal with it. Society doesn’t treat the child of an unwed mother like a blessing. When you’re married and pregnant, people come up and ask all kinds of questions: ‘Is it a boy? Is it a girl? How are you feeling?’ But that doesn’t happen when you’re single. People saw me getting fatter, but everyone avoided the subject. Instead they asked each other: ‘What happened? Do you know anything?’ I felt invisible. I dropped out of law school because I felt so ashamed. Thankfully a few close friends carried me through. My daughter is eighteen now. Everything turned out fine. But I wish I could have enjoyed my pregnancy more." (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofnyToday in microfashion... (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)humansofny“We’re taking a walk in the park to talk things through. We broke up a couple days ago. I feel like she’s too possessive sometimes. We were at a party, she felt jealous, we started arguing, and I decided that I needed some time to breathe. But I only lasted a couple days. I started to think about a lot of things. And I balanced all the good and the bad. We have our issues. But she takes care of our home. She takes care of my health. When I was in the hospital, she sat on the floor all night by my bed. And she keeps me from falling into my old habits. When I’m with her, it’s all about family.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“People who see us from the outside think that our greatest struggle is the disability. It’s not. Our greatest struggle is that we’d fallen out of love with each other. I lost a lot of my independence when Tatiana was born. I fell into a depression. He was working a lot. We grew distant. I didn’t think I could ever love him again. Two years ago I prayed one night, and said: ‘God, you’ve done so much. Please grant me one more miracle and make me love him again.’ The first change came from me. He’s always been the easygoing one, so I had to change first. I started trusting more. I tried to be more forgiving and understanding. I started to cook for him and organize things around the house. And he started spending more time at home. We started enjoying each other’s company. We talked about things other than diseases. And we started going out together-- just like this. It was like I suddenly met a friend, who became my best friend, who became my love. And our life started over again.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“She has autonomy. She has a strong will. But she can’t move. So in many ways her life is my life. It’s bigger than me, it controls me, and it makes me fight like never before. We spend so much time together that she’s a part of me. She knows how important she is to me. She had childhood cancer. Her heart failed three times. And I was by her side the entire time. I never realized that I could love someone as much as this. She could never hurt me. She could never hurt anyone. We always ask her: ‘Are you angry?’, ‘Are you mad?’ And she always says ‘no.’ She laughs when I laugh. And right now I’m trying not to cry. Because she'll cry if I cry.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“I want to grow up and be like my mom because I really like her. But that’s going to take such a long time. Because it took me so long to turn five. And even longer to turn six. So it must have taken her so long to grow up.”
(São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“For Heloisa, every elderly person feels like a grandparent. And she loves her grandparents. So I asked her if she wanted to have her sixth birthday party at a home for the elderly. She loved the idea. So I contacted a local home and planned everything with the coordinator. We sent invitations to the family members of all the residents. I'm a photographer, so I went a few days early and took nice portraits of all the residents. On the day of the party, I printed out the photographs and brought them as gifts for their family members. We did games and activities. There was so much joy. Everyone had such big smiles. The residents were crying. Their families were crying. I was crying. I think Heloisa will remember the experience forever. Afterward, her school friends came home with us and we had an old-fashioned pajama party.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“I’ve got it all figured out. Just let time go by and try not to think about very much." (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“I was voted the first in my pack! Everybody got one vote, except for me, because another girl decided to vote for me. I need to show up early now because I’m in charge of making sure that everyone arrives!” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“The cocaine made me feel important. I thought I was always right. I was fighting a lot of people. I was cheating on my wife. I felt like I had superpowers. I was hiding my addiction from everybody. Nobody knew I was using until I had a breakdown. I stayed up doing coke for three days, and became convinced that the television was speaking to me. I tried to get through the front door of the largest television station in Brazil-- screaming that I was Jesus. They put me in a clinic for eighteen days. That was three years ago. I don’t mind talking about it. I’m embarrassed by it, but it happened. And it caused me to get clean. It was humiliating, but it’s also the reason I’m able to sit on this bench-- calm, relaxed, and not thinking about drugs.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“When I started being a father, I wasn’t ready. Things are great now but I struggled with substance abuse for a long time. I have three older children and I wasn’t very present with them. I’m fifty-one now and this is my last chance. So I’m trying to do my best with this one. He’s my little baby. Thankfully I’m good friends with his mother so I’m able to see him every day. But I’ve never lived with him. I don’t wake him up in the morning or help him get ready for school. I hear my other friends talking about these things and I just hate it. It makes me feel so guilty. But I’m doing my best. It’s not the best. But it’s my best.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“My father left us when I was two. The last time I saw him was my fifth grade graduation. I do know he’s alive because I found him on Facebook. Apparently he drinks a lot and goes to left wing protests. I’m not bothered by it. I think it’s funny. Sometimes I hope he comes looking for me just so I can turn him away. I did find an old journal recently from my childhood. It had The Powerpuff Girls on the cover. Inside were some pages where I had been practicing cursive, and I had written things like: ‘Why don’t you call me?’ and ‘Why don’t you like me?’ So it clearly bothered me then. Even though I don’t care now, maybe it’s impacted me in a way that I’ve yet to discover.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“I’ve been doing construction since I was fifteen. I like what I do and I do what I like. Every night when I’m heading home, I always look back to see what I’ve built. It gives me a great sense of joy. A few years ago I built a children’s park not far from here, and when they finally opened the gates, and all the children came running in, I started to cry.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofnyToday in microfashion... (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“Both of us are widowers. We met last year at a dance for seniors. He treats me so much better than my husband ever did. My husband treated me like a stray dog. He used to beat me. He’d get angry, and yell, and break things. He’d always say that I’d never meet someone else. But this man is different. He always tells me that he loves me. He always wants to be with me. He makes me feel like a princess.” (São Paulo, Brazil)humansofny“He didn’t begin speaking until the age of seven. He used to hide everywhere. I’d scream for him but he wouldn’t respond to anything. Once when he was three years old, one of his uncles came into the house wearing a baseball cap to the side. He started screaming and I couldn’t calm him. I couldn’t even get him to look me in the eye. But eventually I tried pulling the cap to the front, and he fell completely silent. I brought him back to his room to calm down. And when i walked in a few minutes later, he had built an amazing castle out of playing cards.” (Cordoba, Argentina)humansofny“I was raised in a non-religious family, but certain experiences in life have caused me to connect with something that I can’t explain. Those experiences are like my paintings. The more I try to describe them, the more they lose their meaning." (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“She was my first crush as a kid. We were in the same class together, and she sat by the window, so I’d always pretend that I was staring at the tree outside. But I never had the courage to talk to her. I was extremely shy. Then over the summer I went to her twelfth birthday party at a water park. She walked up to me with her entourage of friends, and said: ‘I liked you all year. But you never talked to me. And now I’m going to another school and you’re never going to see me again!’ I was so scared that I couldn’t talk. That moment was such a small thing for her-- she doesn’t even remember it. But I was completely traumatized.” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny"I knew it would be a girl. I had a dream that I was holding a girl." (Bariloche, Argentina)humansofny“I grew up in a rural town. I was the only girl in the family. Being a girl back then represented a lot of ‘no’s.’ I wanted to study English, the answer was ‘no.’ I wanted to play guitar, the answer was ‘no.’ I wanted to date a boy, the answer was ‘no.’ I felt like there was a barrier separating me from life. The only thing my family wanted for me was to graduate high school, get married, become a teacher, and spend every Sunday with them. So I stayed. And I got pregnant at twenty-five. But my child died during birth. I felt completely drowned. I don’t even remember the passing of time. I lost an entire year of my life. But I eventually reached a moment where I knew that my only chance was to make a major change. And I finally left that town.” (Rosario, Argentina)humansofny“My brother shot himself last November. He always viewed himself as my superior. He’d never come to my door when he visited. He’d always wait in the car for me to come out. He had more money, more lovers, more everything. But he was always searching for more. He was never satisfied. My brother was a character. He was a successful character, but he was a character. And that character ended up eating him.” (Cordoba, Argentina)humansofny"We've gone forty years without insulting each other. There have been fights, but never insults." (Bariloche, Argentina)humansofny“He proposed to me twenty times over the past forty years, but I kept saying ‘no.’ We were doing just fine without the paper. But our kids are more conservative than us. It was the opposite of normal—we were getting pressured from below. We’re on our honeymoon now.” (Bariloche, Argentina)humansofny“We met on the Internet four months ago. Both of us are divorced. It’s been forty years since I felt this way. I’m so happy, but I’m nervous too. It’s hard for me to get rid of this feeling that it won’t work out well. But I chose him because he wrote on his profile: ‘I’m an honest man. And I will do what I say.’ I’ve been disappointed a lot. Every past relationship has left a scar. Hopefully this time there will be no scar.” (Rosario, Argentina)humansofny“Last December my wife lost her job, and now we’re struggling to get to the end of every month. Around the 20th, we always realize there’s no money left. Half of my paycheck goes to rent. And we’re still in debt from our wedding. We can’t afford to go out anymore. Our diets have changed. Now it seems like money is all we talk about: what bills to pay, what to keep, what to leave out. She thinks I spend on the wrong things. I think she spends on the wrong things. So we end up arguing. But I have faith we will pass this test. Both of us came from difficult backgrounds. She was adopted. My mother abandoned me when I was young. We both know what it means to struggle, and that’s why we chose to be together. I came to this city from a small town because I was looking for happiness. And I found my happiness in her. So we’re going to figure this out.” (Rosario, Argentina)humansofny“I’m thirty-four and I haven’t felt real love yet. Sometimes I think: ‘Maybe it’s me. Maybe I’ll never get to that point.’ I’ve had a couple of relationships. But a woman has never really made me feel jealous. And I’ve never felt that I would do anything to be with another person. I’ve read about real love in books, and seen it in movies, but I’ve never felt it. Like in the Titanic movie-- they are trying so hard to be together. That is hard for me to understand. I’m not sure what that would feel like. There is one movie with Winona Ryder where she is about to join a monastery, but then she meets a gardener, and she kisses him, and suddenly she feels real love. I’m not sure what love feels like. But I'm guessing I’ll know when I feel it. Like Winona Ryder knew.” (Rosario, Argentina)humansofny“It was boring in the house, so I kept asking my parents for a younger brother. Then one day, I didn’t want to take a nap, and my mom told me: ‘If you take a nap, you can have a brother in four months!’” (Cordoba, Argentina)humansofny“I water my lawn every morning and birds come to get worms out of the wet ground. If I ever miss a day, the ground will be too hard, and the birds will sit in the yard and call out because their babies are hungry. That’s how I’ve felt my whole life. Like a bird calling out for food. Thirty years ago I went on strike in this same square. We weren’t getting paychecks. There was no money for bills or food. At the time my sons were one, eight, and nine. So we decided to go camping. I’d go fishing on the lake every night and catch two trout. That was enough to feed the four of us. We did it out of necessity but it was beautiful. My sons are in their thirties now. All of them have flown away. But they remember those times with happiness.” (San Carlos de Bariloche, Argentina)humansofny“My father is a simple laborer and my mother has the brain of a twelve year old child. She has a development problem. I was never able to ask her questions when I was growing up, like: ‘How does this work?’ or ‘What does this mean?’ She was the one asking me all the questions. She never said much to me beyond ‘Hello.’ For the longest time I thought it was normal. But when I started to visit the houses of my friends, I noticed that their mothers were hugging them, and cooking them food, and talking to them. But I had no one to take care of me. I started going to nightclubs at the age of twelve. I had no supervision. I never went to college. I still live at home now. I work seventy hours a week and I don’t have a family of my own. If I left the house, it would be a disaster. Neither of my parents can read or write. I do everything for them. I feel like there are no doors open for me, but often I hear people say: ‘No matter what, you can accomplish your dreams.’ So I do feel guilty for not achieving more.” (Cordoba, Argentina)humansofny“She wasn’t naming things like other children her age. She wasn’t pointing at things. She would never respond when we tried to correct her. Often small things would upset her, and we’d try to comfort her, but nothing worked. All I wanted to do was tell her that I loved her and everything would be ‘ok.’ But she would push away if I tried to hug or kiss her. She was my little girl but I couldn’t even hold her. All I ever did was worry about her. We go to a therapist twice a week now, and things are getting better. Everything began to change a few months ago. She pulled me by the hand one morning to show me what she found. And sometimes she looks at me and listens. She’s the first one to wake up in the morning, and she’ll come to the side of the bed, and ask to lie next to us. And she even loves to get hugs and kisses.” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“You can feel in the streets that everyone is worried. We come from a very small town. The engine of our entire economy is a candy factory, and people are getting laid off. I don’t like my job. I package the candies and I have to stay indoors all day. When I was younger, I would think about quitting. My bags were always packed. But everything changes when you feel a small hand gripping your finger. Now I’m terrified of losing my job. Every morning we have a routine. Whenever I don’t feel like going to work, he says ‘come here,’ and he gives me a hug, and that changes me. He’s my battery charger.” (Cordoba, Argentina)humansofny“There were early signs. I used to have this feeling that I could manipulate the future. I got lucky at casinos, and I thought it was because I had the power to control events. I was a biology teacher back then. I was married with four kids. I read three books per week. I was only getting a few hours of sleep every night. Then one morning on the bus I had a break from reality. I was speaking to a friend, and I started to understand her in a completely different way. And the things I understood were evil. It was like my entire mental structure had changed. I began to frighten people. I lost all filters. I would say all of the strange things that I was thinking. People thought I was on drugs. I lost my job. My wife went to her mother’s place with the kids. I ended up sleeping on the streets. It took me years to realize I had schizophrenia. I was put in a psychiatric ward for two months. Now I’m taking three different medications. I’m reading books again. I’ve got some self-esteem back. I’m building a relationship with my kids. But I’m still fighting it. It’s always there. It doesn’t come and go. It’s a continuous way of looking at the world that I must keep pushing back against.” (Cordoba, Argentina)humansofny“There was a lot more oppression when my father grew up, so we have different views of the world. I don’t think he views me as naïve. I think he appreciates that I have the opportunity to be hopeful. The world for me seems a little bit softer. A little bit kinder. I believe that we can solve our problems. I think he used to share those same beliefs. I think he wanted to change the world, and maybe he was disappointed. And now I’m trying many of the same things that he tried when he was young. But it’s a different world now. So maybe there will be different results.” (Cordoba, Argentina)humansofny“I’m the link between him and the rest of the world. It can be an exhausting role. When things go well, I feel an increased sense of responsibility. It felt like the audience was clapping for both of us when he graduated from primary school. But I also feel an increased sense of responsibility when things go wrong. He has difficulties in crowds of people. A few years ago he got very nervous at the supermarket, and he pushed a young girl. Her father got very angry and started screaming at me. Part of me felt guilty for what happened. But part of me wished that more people understood what I go through. We haven’t been to a supermarket since that incident. The best moments for me are when he’s able to link to the world without me. Last Thursday we were visiting another girl with Downs Syndrome. And she was having a bad day. There was very little communication. So he tried to give her a box of dominos as a gift. But she refused. So he tried again. But she refused again. They went back and forth like this for a while, until the girl started to view it as a game, and she started to smile. Then he gave her a hug. A real hug with feeling. He made a connection. And it was his idea. Not mine.” (Rosario, Argentina)humansofny"I hate being a kid because my video games are too hard." (Cordoba, Argentina)humansofny“All the workers on my oil platform were laid off five months ago. I didn’t save the money when I had it. Now it’s been six months since I last worked. I even had to ask my mother-in-law for money last Saturday so I could buy milk for the kids. I have to do something. Maybe I can drive a taxi or something. If I don’t get a job soon, I think the family will break apart. My wife is always asking me what I’m going to do. It’s like she doesn’t even understand what’s happening in the economy right now. Even my four-year-old son feels that something is wrong. He’s started to ask me when I’m going back to work. I lie to him. I tell him I’m on medical leave. I don’t want him to feel this stress too.” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“There weren’t many opportunities to work in Paraguay. I was selling tools on the street. There was no money. There was nothing. I came to Argentina when I was nineteen and life has been so much better. I work every day. I’m close to opening another shop just like this. I do get called a lot of names like ‘Shitty Paraguayan.’ But I’m used to it now. In the beginning I would try to fight back, but not anymore. When I first arrived, I fought a man who tried to stab me through the cage. But he came back with twenty people and destroyed my store. So I don’t fight back anymore. Everyone in the neighborhood knows me now, so I’m treated with more respect. And my son was born in this country. So this one is an Argentinian. He's going to study.” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“She lost her back legs when she got hit by a car. She’d already been returned to the shelter twice already. She’s a lot of work. It’s almost like having a child. You need to be very patient. You always need to change her diaper. It’s very hard to find a babysitter. But I’ve had her for 1.5 years now and I can’t imagine life without her. Everyone loves Lucy. And Lucy loves everyone. She can’t wag her tail, so I was worried that I’d never know if she was happy. But she tells me with her eyes.” (Rosario, Argentina)humansofny"I'm doing great from the neck up." (San Carlos de Bariloche, Argentina)humansofny“I met him five years ago. He answered an advertisement that I posted for cleaning services. His place was a mess. He was living like a hermit. He was a hypochondriac. His wife passed away in 2007, so he was just sitting around on the computer and waiting to die. Now we are like family. I visit him every day. We have over 5,000 pictures together. We go shopping. We go on walks. He even cooks now. He has given me a purpose. All of his accomplishments make me proud. Sometimes I feel like I’ve created a monster! He’s become a completely different person.“ (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“Even if we have equal rank, a man always tries to take charge of the situation." (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“My parents disappeared during the last dictatorship. They were political activists. My father was taken first in 1977. My mother was taken a year later during the World Cup. We were standing in a public square, and two cars stopped, and they grabbed me and my mother. They let me go. But my mother was never heard from again. I learned all of this later because I was only three at the time. My grandparents raised me. When I was a child they would tell me that my parents were working. I used to imagine them building a skyscraper, wearing helmets, and getting closer and closer to the top. It wasn’t until the age of ten that I learned what really happened. But even then, my parents were only ideas to me. They were two-dimensional. But when I turned seventeen, I visited the town where they first met. I found their old friends and they told me stories. I learned that my father loved the Beatles. He also loved to dance. A man gave me a costume that my father would wear when he danced. And suddenly my parents weren’t ideas anymore. They were people. They were Daniel and Viviana. And for the first time, I cried for them.” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“He’s not too romantic but he does close himself in the bedroom while I’m studying for my law exams.” (San Carlos de Bariloche, Argentina)humansofny“It’s a bittersweet time. I’m trying to be happy because it’s said that the baby will absorb sad moments. But my father died five months ago, today. We don’t know exactly what happened. He was alone. We think someone tried to rob him because he was found shot to death in his car. I think it was hardest for me because we were so close. He used to visit me at the hospital every day while I was working. I learned that I was pregnant shortly after he died. I think my pregnancy is what’s keeping our family alive. Especially my mother. She’s always with me now. She gets me everything I need. The baby keeps both of us looking forward. It’s going to be a girl.” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“I love my brother so much. One time he said he didn’t love me. But then he said that he really did. And then we hugged.” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny"This is the farthest that I've ever ridden!" (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“I’m looking for a tall man. 85 to 90 years old. Preferably a professional. Needs to have a good mood. But other than that I’m pretty open. If you know anybody, let me know.” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“When I was younger, I’d always leave the house dressed like a man, but then I’d change my clothes. My mother told me the devil was in me. My father said that I was useless. They even took me to the doctor to find out what was going on. But my grandfather always supported me. He was more open-minded than my parents. I think it's because he worked at a 24 hour restaurant and met all the people who came out at night. Even when I was a child, he'd see the clothes I wore, and he'd tell me: ‘If you were a girl, you’d be very beautiful.’ When I finally told him everything I was feeling, he said: ‘You’re a great person, and I’ll never be afraid of what’s going on with you.’” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“I didn’t want to be a mother. I was eighteen. We weren’t in love. I had goals I wanted to accomplish. So I made the hardest decision of my life. It’s not legal here. So I researched it on the Internet. I did it myself. In my room. If things had gone wrong, I could have died. Seeing it come out of me was the worst moment of my life. And I couldn’t tell anyone. Not even my parents. So I carried the secret with me. I felt like this thing was always in my chest, but it was stuck there. All day I’d act normal. Then at night I’d go to my room and cry.” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“I wrote her the message while I was lying in my bed. It said: ‘I don’t want to go too fast, but will you be my girlfriend?’ After I hit ‘send,’ I was so nervous that I laid the phone down next to me. I couldn’t even look at the screen. My nose was sweating. After two minutes, I saw it vibrate. I picked it up, and it said: ‘Yes!’ I felt so good. It felt like killing five characters at one time in League of Legends. These last five days have been magic. I feel so happy and nervous at the same time. This is my first girlfriend so I don’t even know what to do. I don’t know what to talk about. I don’t even know how to sit.” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“I can do all the same things as my wife except for the milk part. And I try to make up for that by reading a lot of stories and showing her my vinyl collection.” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“Mario and I had been friends since the age of six. We were from the same small town in the countryside. We always kept in touch. We’d occasionally get coffee together. I knew he was gay but we never talked about it. It just didn’t come up. He never volunteered the information and I never asked. I felt that I was being respectful. At one point, I began to notice that his face was changing. He started to get very thin. But I never asked about it. Maybe I thought that he’d feel I was invading his privacy. Mario could get offended very easily. He was like a volcano. Maybe, subconsciously, I just didn’t want to get involved. When I finally knew for sure, it was too late. I visited him at the hospital the day before he died. I could only look at him through a glass window. He was covered in blankets. I felt like such an idiot. I could have asked him at any time. I could have said: ‘What are you hiding from me? Are you sick? Are you afraid I will reject you?’ Then we could have hugged each other and cried together. We could have maybe even laughed at the situation. But we never got to do that. Because I never had the balls to ask.” (Buenos Aires, Argentina)humansofny“This is the first time I've ever been in love. My mother put me in an orphanage when I was one year old. I went from bonding with her every day to lying in a room with a hundred other cribs. It's been seventy-three years since then, and I'm finally allowing myself to be dependent on the love of another person.”humansofny“When I try to jump, I don’t leave the ground. It’s killing my Zumba.”humansofny“My dad was a blackout, abusive drunk. I’ve been on my own since I was sixteen, and after that it was nothing but abusive relationships and hell. Mark was the only guy who'd ever been nice to me. We were married for five years. He’d bring flowers to my office. He would make me a bubble bath in the morning before I woke up. He even treated my daughter like she was his own. He didn’t say ‘our daughter.’ He always called her ‘my daughter.’ He’d even watch me sleep. I could never sleep because of everything that has happened to me. But I could sleep when I was with him. And he knew that, so he liked to watch me sleep. One night I woke up and he was watching me like he always did. But I leaned over to kiss him and he was cold. It's been over a year now. For awhile I was so depressed that I couldn't leave my room. But I'm trying to get my life back together."humansofny“For the last eight years I’ve been the head of communications for the UN Refugee Agency. My job is to make people care about the sixty million displaced people in the world. I wish I could tell every single one of their stories. Because if people knew their stories, I don’t think there would be so many walls. And there wouldn’t be so many people drowning in the seas. But I don’t think I anticipated how difficult it would be to make people care. It’s not that people are selfish. I just think that people have a hard time caring when they feel insecure. When the world is unstable, people feel vulnerable. And vulnerable people focus on protecting what they have. They focus on their own families. They focus on their own communities. It can be very hard to welcome strangers when you’re made to feel threatened. Even if those strangers are more vulnerable than you.” --------------------------------------------------------This is my friend Melissa Fleming, who I think is one of the most important people in the world, and who was so instrumental in helping organize the HONY refugee series. Tomorrow at 7pm we will be in conversation at the Union Square Barnes and Noble, to celebrate the launch of her new book: A Hope More Powerful Than The Sea, which tells the powerful story of a young woman who survived a shipwreck while fleeing the war in Syria. If you can’t make the signing, you can get the book through link in bio.humansofny“I always told myself that when I reached a certain point in life, I’d get a dog. I thought maybe when I get my own home. Or when I’m more settled. But that point never seemed to come. So I decided to go ahead and adopt. The majority of the dogs at the pound were pit bulls. I originally wanted a younger dog, but this one had a red card on her cage, which meant that she was going to be euthanized. She was emaciated and had kennel cough. But when I reached out my hand, she licked it. I named her ‘Adidas’ because I wanted a running partner. But that dream ended pretty early. All she wants to do is hug and kiss and lay on you. She doesn’t care who you are. If she senses that you’re the least bit receptive to her, she’s coming right toward you. Just a few minutes ago she jumped into somebody’s wheelchair. It’s made me more of a people person. I’m always having to explain to people why she’s trying to kiss them.”humansofny“My first tattoo said: “I Hate.” I tattooed over it a long time ago. I was twenty-one when I got it. It was a very self-destructive period of my life. I’d dropped out of college. My girlfriend had just left me for an older guy. I’d gotten a Mohawk and was doing a lot of slam dancing. I felt like everyone in the family was disappointed with me. My dad was a very successful attorney. My brother was a diplomat. So I rebelled against everything and decided that I was going to live the whole ‘poetry lifestyle.’ I lived in the desert for a couple years. Then I came to New York and tried to survive as a poet. I ended up working as a freak in the Coney Island Side Show. But after fifteen years, even that became like any other job. It was the exact same thing every day. Only the audience changed. I still haven’t figured out what I was trying to escape. There’s no such thing as a true outsider. We all have to breathe. We all have to eat. We all have to work. I wanted to run away from everything but I ran into myself. I’m still a middle class, intellectual kid from the suburbs.”humansofny“God doesn’t answer my prayers like he once did. But he still talks to me. He talks to me through my mind and through my own mouth. He’s upset with me because he wanted me to wave at someone on the street and I didn’t. So he took away my money and told me to leave my jobs. My family put me in the hospital and they said I was bipolar. But I’m not mentally ill. I take the medicine because it’s part of the deal for me having my own apartment, but I’m not mentally ill. When I’ve paid my debt, God is going to transform my voice. He’s going to make me a great singer. One night I had a dream that I was singing and something golden fell from the sky. And I caught it so everyone gathered around me. I hope you pray about me and then you’ll see the truth. Pray to God and ask him: ‘Is this man honest, or is he mentally ill?’”humansofny“I always thought of kids as being simple in a way. I knew that having a child would be challenging, but I underestimated how complicated their emotions can be. I thought I’d have greater influence over my child’s mood. I imagined that I’d be able to make him happy when he’s unhappy. I hoped that I would always have a solution. But you learn quickly that some unhappiness doesn’t have a quick fix. And often it’s just part of who he is. And that can be painful to accept. Sometimes I just have to provide as much guidance as possible, and trust that he’ll find comfort within himself.”humansofny“My mom and I have always been close. But we had to learn how to communicate again after my dad died. It took therapy. We’d stopped being honest with each other. My dad’s illness had been so stressful that we didn’t want to create any additional worries. So we tried to protect each other. Neither of us would admit if we were having a bad day. Or if we were feeling depressed. The answer to everything was always: ‘I’m fine.’ But we weren’t fine. And it was obvious. So we worried about each other all the time. It caused a lot of stress and arguments. We had to relearn how to admit when we were having a bad day. Because you can never truly know if someone's 'fine' unless you trust them to tell you when something's wrong."humansofny“I call them clobber verses. There are six of them. They’re the verses that get used to hammer gay people. The funny thing is that I never felt pressured by God himself. Only his followers. But I desperately wanted God to change me. I didn’t want to be part of a group with so much shame attached to it. So I started praying in my twenties for God to make me straight. If I could have taken a pill, I would have. I joined the ministry. I got married. I told my wife that I’d had experiences with men, but I convinced both of us that I could choose to be different. I wanted to be normal. I wanted kids. I thought it was just a matter of commitment. I even tried to take reparative therapy classes—just to show her I was serious. They tried to teach me that homosexuality wasn’t real. They said that I'd just had an overbearing mother. But I couldn’t change. I kept slipping up. I couldn’t give my wife what she needed. My marriage ended. I had tried so hard but nothing worked. I got so angry with God for not keeping up his end of the bargain. But after some time, I finally realized why he wouldn’t change me. He never felt like he needed to.”humansofny“I like watching her get excited about things. She has a very distinct look when amazement comes over her face. Like she gets really excited about dachshunds. I always text her pictures of dachshunds. Or the tile work at the 81st street subway station. She loves that. Or warm socks. I mean… warm socks are kind of exciting to me. But she really loves warm socks.”humansofny“I thought when I came to New York it was going to be this huge change of scenery and that I could be whoever I want to be. I thought there’d always be a plan, or an event, and that I’d never feel alone, and that I’d be very ‘fabulous’ — for lack of a better word. ‘Carrie Bradshaw-esque,’ so to speak. But in reality, I still spend a lot of time alone. I think it’s because I’m afraid of being a burden on those around me. What if I’m not fun enough? What if the parts of me that are sad and complaining outweigh the parts of me that are good? Will I be wasting other people’s time? And when I do spend time with other people, I’m afraid to demand a certain level of kindness and respect. Because maybe that will make me even more of a burden. So I don’t reach out to other people very much. I spend a lot of time alone. But then I still get mad when I look on Snapchat and see people hanging out without me. But I’m trying to change my thinking. I’m not allowed to feel left out if I’m not making an effort. I’m not the protagonist of reality. I can’t expect good relationships to happen just because I exist.”humansofny“Last year I started figure modeling for art classes. I’m plus-sized, so I was a little worried about being nude. I was nervous about everyone seeing my stomach, and my thighs, and all my fat. But apparently my curves are fun to draw. In the classroom, all the features I saw as negative were viewed as assets. One student told me that it’s no fun to draw straight lines. It’s been liberating for me. I’ve always been insecure about my belly. But now my belly has been part of so many beautiful pieces of art.”humansofny“I want to be a stand up comic. The hardest thing is to find material that’s not just funny—but also true. Funny can just be a surprise. But good comedy articulates truth in a certain way. And I don't think I've experienced enough to know what’s true for other people. I’ve had a bit of a charmed life. Nothing too traumatic has happened to me. I have a lot of creative energy but I’m not sure that I have the arsenal to back it up. Recently I was at an open mic upstate, and there was an older guy performing who used to be a heroin addict. There was just this sense that you should be paying attention to every word he says, and not just the punch line. I’m not there yet.”humansofny“I felt like sometimes she didn’t want me born. I was like Cinderella—even though I was a dude. She blamed me for everything. Maybe it’s because I was ugly, I guess. Girls were all running from me. My brothers were better looking. When I grew older, it was all about money. Mom and I never discussed anything personal. It seemed like she always wanted something from me. One time I called her crying, because I was trying to quit marijuana, and I felt really depressed. She just told me: ‘You’re wasting all that money on weed. You could be giving it to me instead.” She used to cash my student loan checks. One time she even used my social security number to get a credit card, and I didn’t even know until I got the bill. So I detached myself from her. I stopped answering the phone. Then two years ago she called to tell me she had cancer, and she needed an operation, but I didn’t even answer the phone. I thought she was tricking me again. She left a message, it said: ‘Michael, I’ve been trying to get a hold of you. I love you. And I know you love me.’ And I just ignored it. And she died. And I’m haunted by that. I’ve been trying to write about my life lately, but I can’t get past my mother. I wish I could just start my story with that phone call. With her saying that she loved me. The only other time I ever felt love from her was when I tried crack cocaine. I was a teenager, and I had been using for a couple weeks, and I went in her room to ask for baking soda. She started crying, and she looked scared, and she said: ‘Michael, why do you need baking soda?’ And I felt love at that moment. And it was so strong that I quit doing crack right then. I never used again. I didn’t go to a program or anything. That’s how strong that feeling was.”humansofny“I’m what they call ‘ethnically ambiguous,’ so I get a lot of work as a background actor. I’m playing a ‘parkgoer’ today. It’s my 25th job since October. In Madam Secretary alone, I’ve played an Israeli military officer, a Colombian college student, and an advisor to the Iranian president. And that was all in the same season. They’ll keep using you as long as you don’t have any speaking lines. Maybe one day I'll have a recurring role, but right now I’m really grateful to be doing this. My parents are immigrants from El Salvador. They are the hardest working people I know. They were really skeptical about me wanting to be an actor, so I love that they get to see me working. My first gig was a Hallmark Christmas movie with Melissa Joan Hart and Dean Cain. My parents couldn’t believe that I was on the same show as Sabrina The Teenage Witch and Superman.”humansofny“When the last kid left for college, it came to a point where it was just pretense. And I couldn’t hide it anymore. I was tired of worrying if people suspected, or if they’d find out, or if they’d still care about me if they knew. The first person I came out to was my wife. It was wrenching. It was the end of our marriage. I just kept telling her I was sorry. I think she felt abandoned. And I’m sorry for that. I also think she felt that our life together was a lie. But I don’t see it that way. We were a family. We had four wonderful children that we raised to adulthood. And those are facts. I’m not happy about the hurt I caused. But I feel authentic now. I regret the things I did, but I’m so happy about what I’ve done.”humansofny“My mom has been really sick for 50 to 60 percent of my life. She had a nervous breakdown when my father left, and she ended up in a psychiatric ward. Then she had breast cancer twice while I was young. I was her only child so it was a lot of pressure. While my friends were at the playground, I’d be coming home to pick my mother up off the bathroom floor. I’m newly married now and have a child on the way. But I still have to worry about her all the time. She never remarried, so I’m all she has. She’s on oxygen now. She was so sick during my honeymoon that I had to call the hospital every three hours. Every evening when I get home from work, she has a list of things for me to do. If I don’t visit for a few days, she tells me how selfish I am. She’ll say: ‘Forget it. I’m fine without visitors. Don’t come back.’ I don’t know what I want to happen. But I’m starting a new family. And I’m at the point where I’d like some freedom to live my life.”humansofny“I teach English at a community college in Queens. I love the job, but I hate grading papers. I’d prefer to just have one continuous discussion about Shakespeare. I envy the math teachers who can just put their tests through a Scantron machine. Placing value on a student’s writing is much more nuanced and complicated. What if they have great ideas but their English language skills aren’t as developed? What if English is their second language? What if they’ve faced major challenges in life? Do I ignore those things? Or do I consider context while grading? I want to set high standards and prepare my students for what comes next. But so many of them already have a self-defeating attitude. And I don’t want to discourage them any further.”humansofny“My father wants me to come home to Botswana. He tells me that he’s getting older and he needs me to come home. I miss my family, but I want to stay here. Life is different for me here. I’ve met so many people from so many cultures. I’ve done half marathons. I even did a triathlon. It’s different back in Botswana. I was completely dependent on my father. Women don’t leave home until they get married. So I’d like to stay here. But my sister is the only family that I have in America. And last week she told me that she’s moving back to Botswana. So now I’ll be on my own. And I’m worried. Because I don’t like to ask for help. But I never had a problem asking her for help. And now I won’t have that anymore. But a few months ago I joined something at my church called a ‘connect group.’ And now I have so many friends. They are like my sisters. We have brunches, and dinners, and go hiking. I feel very loved by them. So I’m hoping they will be like my family.”humansofnyIt’s that time of the year. Drummers are drumming. Angels are harking. And the fourth annual HONY For The Holidays is upon us! Every holiday season we try to connect people in New York City who would like to share a holiday meal. Why? Because nothing is worse than being alone on Christmas or Hanukkah. Maybe you can’t afford to go home. Maybe home is too far away. Or maybe home isn’t much of a home at all. It doesn’t matter. If you are going to be alone over the holidays-- send us an email. We’ll match you up with somebody who has an extra seat at the table. And if you DO have a gathering planned, consider making room for one more. We need a host for every guest. So if you have a place to go this Christmas, please consider sharing your good fortune. As always, matches are approved by guests and hosts before anyone is connected. So there are no surprises. If you are interested in participating, please email: honyfortheholidays@gmail.com ------------------------
Indicate in the subject line whether you’d like to be a GUEST or HOST.
GUESTS: Please share a little bit about yourself and why you are interested in joining HONY for the Holidays. Be sure to include your residing neighborhood, how far you are willing to travel, any dietary restrictions, and which day you are looking for holiday plans (the 24th or 25th). HOSTS: Please share a little bit about yourself and the gathering you will be hosting. Also be sure to include which day and time you will be hosting a gathering, how many "seats" you have available to guests, the type of meal you will be serving (ie meat, vegetarian), and where you are located. --------------------------- Important Note: Founder, CEO, and Chairman of The Board for HONY For The Holidays is my wife Erin-- who does everything. I just try to write a clever promotion.humansofny“I was first exposed to ballet at the age of seven when a traveling company came to my church in North Carolina. By the time I was eleven I was practicing six days a week. It became my all-consuming monastic devotion. I eventually made it to the New York City Ballet. I’ve always seen ballet as my way of serving God. I think it’s what God has called me to do. You can call it frivolous, or superficial. But you can stretch that argument to infinity. Why do we have painting? Why do we have architecture? I think it’s all a form of worship. In a secular age the theater becomes the cathedral. There can be such a lack of empathy and collaboration in this world. But in the theater we see beauty and order and harmony modeled for us-- two hours at a time. And it took a lot of sacrifice to make that possible."humansofny“My parents are old school. We’re from Bolivia. The daughter isn’t supposed to leave the house until she’s married. But I left when I was nineteen because I couldn’t take the constant fighting about how to live my life. It’s not that I wanted to be promiscuous. I just wanted to explore New York and have black friends and white friends and gay friends. I’ve had a bad relationship with my parents ever since. I ended up marrying a Dominican boy from Corona. He’s been nothing but good to me. But they’ve never accepted him. We got married at City Hall. I’m thirty-three now. We just had our first child. So I thought things would finally get better with my parents. I thought we could relate as equals now that I have my own child. Maybe they’d finally accept my choices. But they’re still the same. My mother helps babysit my child while I’m at work. She does everything her own way. She criticizes all my decisions. When I insist on raising my child a certain way, she gets upset. She starts crying and reminds me that I left the house when I was nineteen. Then my father calls and yells at me for upsetting my mother. It breaks my heart. But I’m realizing that a good relationship with my parents will always require doing exactly what they say.”humansofny“I’m scared to go back to work. I just called out someone in front of a large group of people. I just wouldn’t let it go. I should have taken it offline, but I had to be right. I could have stepped back, watched the movie version of myself, and seen how my behavior was being seen by the people around me. But no--- I just couldn’t let it go. My therapist would be so upset with me right now. I almost went home, but there was a woman taking a diarrhea shit on the train platform. So I think God, who I don’t even believe in, is telling me that I need to go back to the office and figure this out.”humansofny"I'm not sure if people have become less interesting, or if I'm just less interested in people."humansofny“I come from Ghana. I’m always smiling. People ask me: ‘Isaac, why are you always smiling?' I tell them: ‘What else can I do?’ I am so blessed to be in this country. I work in customer service at the CVS on 57th Street and I love it. CVS is the best place that I love so much. I help people with their needs and it makes me so happy. I help them with their coupons. I help them with their medication. People bring me their challenges and I solve their problems. You can say that I am their champion. I am not a citizen. But when I help people with their problems, that makes me part of the community. So I do feel like an American.”humansofny“We’ve been together for twenty years. I’ve never dated anyone else. But there’s no intimacy. There’s no ring on the finger. He doesn’t even want his family to know we’re together. Maybe it’s my weight. Maybe it’s a status thing. But he keeps me away from his family. I accidentally sat by his sister at a basketball game, and his jaw nearly dropped to the floor. We’ve only made love once. That was twelve years ago. He won’t kiss me or touch me. I’ve just stopped asking. But he insists that we’re in a relationship. He got mad when I tried to change my relationship status to ‘single.’ He got on my computer and changed it back. I didn’t even know that he knew my password. I told myself that I was OK with it. I told myself that I’m OK with not being touched. But I don’t think I am. I recently went to a therapist for the first time. I was so scared he’d find out that I parked my car next door. But maybe it would be good if he found out. Maybe he’d leave me and give me a chance.”humansofny“We didn’t expect to be raising our granddaughter. We used to talk about moving to the country when we retired. Now we talk about moving to the best school districts. I’m working as much as I can. I worry every day that something will happen to us before she’s grown. I’m going to the gym more. I’m trying to stay healthy. I’m enrolled in a special savings program for her college education. I’ve been adding money to it since the day she was born. Because if something happens to me, the amount doubles.”humansofny“I grew up in the suburbs. I used to think that I could write a prescription for a poor man: ‘Get a job, save your money, pull yourself up by the bootstraps.’ I don’t believe that anymore. I was ignorant to the experiences of poor people. I’d invite anyone to come and meet the people who live in this neighborhood. Right now we are surrounded by working poor people. These are the people who sell your tools at Sears, and fix your roofs, and take care of your parents, and mow your lawns, and serve your meals. They’re not getting a living wage. There’s no money left to save. There’s nothing left if they get sick. Nothing left if their car breaks down. And God forbid they make a mistake, because there’s nothing left to pay fines or fees. When you’re down here, the system will continue to kick dirt in your face. You can’t pull yourself up when there’s nothing to grab onto. We aren’t paying our brothers and sisters enough to live. We want them to serve us, but we aren’t serving them.”humansofny“All the bosses care about is getting the job done. So if you have a good work ethic, the work falls on you more. The bosses know that it’s easier to push a good worker than it is to get a bad worker to do their job. It’s the path of least resistance. Especially when the boss happens to be friends with the bad workers. It used to really bother me. I couldn’t stand the injustice of it. But I’ve had to learn to let it go. I was bringing the stress home with me. I’d get mad at little things and slam drawers. I was even having rage dreams. I abhor violence, but I was having dreams where the boss would criticize my work and my hands would go around his neck. So I had to learn to let it go. I used to really care about the job. But I’ve had to just start viewing it as a paycheck.”humansofny“My ninety-year-old mother just moved in with us. So I’ve become a full time caretaker. I’m all she’s got. My father passed away and I’m her only child. So I’m it. Right now she has a lot of negativity. She seems to fixate on the negative side of things. If I suggest going outside, she’ll say it’s too cold. If I suggest that we go shopping, she’ll say there’s too much traffic. She wants her independence, but when she has it, she gets lonely. It’s hard for me. Because I’m a positive person by nature. And it’s hard to deal with so much negative energy. My husband is worried about me. He thinks it’s too much to deal with. I have a family, a life, and a business. But I’d be even more of a wreck if I put her in assisted living. I need to know for sure that she’s getting the proper care. Because for all her negativity, my mother always taught us respect. Respect your toys. Respect your parents. Respect other people. Respect their property. Respect is the basis for everything. Without it, everything falls apart."humansofny“This was supposed to be a regular “hi mom” visit. It was my first time coming home in five years. I was expecting my mother to pick me up from the airport, but my sister-in-law was there when I landed. She told me that my mother was in the hospital. She was bleeding internally and had a blood clot in her leg. Right after we arrived, two surgeons sat me down, and told me they needed a decision immediately. They’d given my mother eleven units of blood and they wanted to amputate her leg and give her a colonoscopy bag. At first I asked if we could do nothing. But then I told them to go ahead and do it. And I think I made the wrong decision. She’s recovering now, and it’s becoming apparent that she’ll never be able to do basic things by herself. And I know my mother. She’s a very independent woman. She rakes her own leaves and blows the snow off her own driveway. She wouldn’t want to live like this. She’d never say this to me, but I think she feels that I let her down.”humansofny“I’ve been on my own since the age of twelve. My mom decided that her drug-dealing boyfriend was more important than me. One night I came home from playing and the key wouldn’t turn. I started banging on the door but nobody answered. I lived with friends for the next few years. I went from house to house, couch to couch. My friend’s mom was a bartender so she got me a job washing dishes. I saved enough money to get a car when I turned sixteen, and I drove out to Arizona. I was pregnant by the time I was twenty-one. My son changed my life. I didn’t turn into Mother Theresa overnight. I had to unlearn everything I’d ever known. I had to learn how to do things the right way, not sell drugs, not cut corners. Right now I’m trying to finish college while being a single mother. I’m taking care of my eighty-three year old grandmother. I just beat cancer for the second time in four years. But things seem to be quiet now. I’m always holding my breath, though. The story of my life has been the calm before the storm.”humansofny“My grandmother got me a violin when I was thirteen. Whenever people were fighting, and I wanted to get away, I’d just go in my room and play. Sometimes I’d play for four or five hours per night. It gave me a lot of confidence. I started playing in front of the church, in front of the school--- it made me feel good about myself. But my mom struggled a lot. She made a lot of mistakes. She got in some bad relationships and we lived in a lot of different places. Sometimes we’d go weeks without having power. One time it got really bad and we had to start selling our stuff. She didn’t ask me to sell my violin. But we’d already sold our TV. And she just asked if I had any ideas. I ended up selling it to a friend for $145. I was really upset for a while. I’m a Christian, and God knew how much I loved the violin. So I was confused why he’d make me sell it. For a few months, I tried to keep playing in the music room at school. But eventually I had to stop so I could focus on paying the bills. I got a real job at the grocery store.”humansofny“I fostered thirteen little babies in my life. It’s just a passion I have in my heart. Often they’d just come wrapped in a blanket. I could only foster one at a time because I had five children of my own. But one time a mother dropped three children off on my doorstep. She had just given them chocolate ice cream. I’ll never forget how the ice cream was dripping off their faces. Most of the time I’d only have the children for a few months. And once they were adopted, I’d never contact them again. But I often wonder what happened to them. Maybe we’ll meet again in heaven.”humansofny“I thought I was going to work until I died. But they came in and told me that I was too old and that I didn’t know the computer. They thought I was obsolete. If that’s true—then how did I get so far without the computer? I’ve got that computer in my head. I can design the whole process. I can start with a blank sheet of paper and cycle the whole line: the robots, the tooling, everything. That was my life. At night when I go to sleep, I’m still building welding lines. There were only 1800 of us in this town that could do it. And each of us had our own style. People could recognize Norm Szewsky’s work. But you know what happened? They took all 1800 of our brains, and they put them in a computer. So now a guy who don’t know nothing can just press a button, and out comes a clamp. Oh well, I don’t really give a shit. I’m checking out soon.”humansofny(3/3) “I miss that we can’t go out and dance. Or visit other people. We used to volunteer at the senior center every Wednesday. She’d play the piano, and I’d turn the pages for her. The hymns were some of the last things she remembered. Music was her life. But one day she wouldn’t play anymore. And I told the staff that they’d need to find someone else. So we stay here now. But I don’t see this as a curse. It’s an honor. This is what the Lord has given me to do. She has served this family her entire life. And now it’s my turn to serve her. I might not have her mentally. But I have her. I can still make her smile. I can make bubbly noises, and blow on her, and she’ll smile. Every morning we’ll sit in this chair and we’ll cuddle until noon. I rock this lady more than I rock my grandchildren. She likes to slip her hand under my shirt to feel my skin. And she still likes to kiss. Every once in awhile she’ll reach up and give me a kiss. Sometimes she starts ‘yakking.’ She doesn’t say actual words. And it doesn't make any sense. But I never tell her to be quiet, because it’s better than nothing at all.”humansofny(2/3) “We celebrated our 50th wedding anniversary in Branson, Missouri. On the drive home, she kept telling me that we were going the wrong way. She was very insistent. I didn’t fight her. I kept letting her turn around because I knew that eventually we’d hit the main road back to Michigan. I knew then. Her father had dementia. And so did his father. So I knew what was happening. Soon she started forgetting names. When it started getting really bad, she wanted to walk away. She was always trying to leave the house. I’d have to lie in front of the door to keep her from going. One morning I woke up and I couldn’t find her. I freaked out: ‘Where did she go? Where did she go?’ I ran outside and it was totally dark. Down the road there was a streetlight. And I could barely see her—crossing the road. I ran and I got her. But she fought me. She didn’t want to come back home.”humansofny(1/3) “I was nineteen. She was sixteen. Our dates were normally on Sunday. We didn’t do much of anything. We were conservative. I was a farmer. We weren’t those swinging type people. But every date was a little more cuddly. Then she took me to her senior prom. It was just ten miles from here—in Richmond. I was the only one there without a tuxedo. All those city folks didn’t know what to make of me. I can’t tell you when we fell in love. I can’t even tell you when I asked her to marry me. It was just natural. I think we were just sitting in the car and I gave her the ring. I don't have many big moments to share. We were simple people. They were all happy days.”humansofny“Don’t get me wrong. I want everyone to get along. And I don’t want to sound racist. But they’re coming into our country. If you ask me, that makes them racist. There’s something going on with the Muslims. There’s something going on there. There’s a lot we don’t know about. They have a game plan. They want all the businesses. They want control. They want my grandchildren to work for them. I’m hoping he can do something about it. We need somebody to say no.”humansofny“This racial stuff to me is BS and I’m tired of hearing it. I have it made because I’m a white male? I’m prejudiced? That shit is long ago. Way long ago. Enough of it. It’s all the media. It’s all for ratings. It’s this false racial shit that they keep pumping into everybody’s head. They’re keeping everyone on edge. If there’s a police shooting—it’s white versus black. Always white versus black. Who cares about the facts? Race is more important. Watching the news, you’d think there was a race war out there. But then I walk outside and I just don’t see it. I hold the door for the black guy. He holds the door for me. I wouldn’t even know there was a problem if it wasn’t for the television. They need to quit making shit out of nothing.”humansofny“I feel homeless. Like this isn’t the place that I thought it was. I feel like I don’t understand where I am. Where we all are. Last week students started chanting ‘build the wall’ in the lunchroom of a local middle school. Some of the Hispanic children started crying. If you’re the principal-- how are you supposed to stop that behavior? If the president can behave in a certain way, how are you supposed to tell a child that it’s unacceptable? How does that hold up? It breaks my heart. I’ve had friends reach out to me. They’ve told me: ‘I understand the reasons that you’re upset. But those aren’t the reasons I voted for him.’ And I’m just starting to understand that. I’m realizing that a lot of people wanted change more than they wanted kids not to cry. We all have our own code of ethics. My bottom line happened to be tolerance. Their bottom line was abortion. Or the Supreme Court. I guess we all have the right to choose our own bottom line."humansofny“This isn’t the first time I’ve owned a flower shop. I owned another store twenty years ago, but it went bankrupt. I was devastated. I’d just gotten divorced. I felt like a complete failure. For months I couldn’t even drive down the street where the shop had been. But one day a friend told me that I’d been looking at it all wrong. He told me: ‘You’re focused too much on the closing. Think of all the years that the shop was open. Think of all the jobs you provided, the flowers that you sold, and all the people that you served. You were open for twenty years. It was happening. And just because it didn’t happen forever, doesn’t mean it wasn’t valuable.’”humansofny“I just think that people are looking to blame someone else for their problems. They’re worried about the wrong stuff. They’re too fixated on what other people are getting. I wasn’t able to go to college. My mom raised five kids on her own. I’ve had to work since I was sixteen. So I haven’t gotten to do all the things I wanted to do. But I’ve never complained. I’ve never been ‘too good’ for a job. I worked at Burger King. I worked at Walmart. Now I work at Chrysler. And I got promoted at all three places. I've never had a problem getting noticed. Managers notice things. If you don’t complain, and work hard, and pick up shifts, you’ll move up. So I don't complain. I’m twenty-eight now. I have no debt. Chrysler even has a program where they’ll pay for my college. I've got enough to help out my mom. I’m actually picking her up a new dryer right now.”humansofny“I thought we were happy. We had two kids. She was a great mom. But three or four years into our marriage, she started playing that Sims game online. You can be anyone in that game. She could be the perfect wife or whatever. She was always on that computer. Then she started playing this other game where you can marry, date, and screw people. All of it is fake, but people actually develop feelings for each other. In real life these guys are probably 450 lbs. but online they look like Superman. There was actually one guy that she called ‘her Superman.’ He even started mailing Superman trinkets to the house. She wouldn’t quit. I even tried to break her cellphone with my hand. I just wanted her to live her life with us. But we weren’t enough for her.”humansofny“I’ve known since I was thirteen. It wasn’t a struggle for me. I didn’t question whether it was ‘right’ or ‘wrong.’ I just knew it was me. But I’m still completely closeted. I’m part of a very religious community. Even my choice to go to college was questioned. It’s seen as not trusting in God. If my family knew I was gay, I’d be cut off completely. Listen, they’re not bad. They aren’t bad people. It’s just what they believe. I’m not angry at them. I’m angry at the situation. If I choose to fall in love, then nobody that I’ve ever known will speak to me again.”humansofny“My father was on strike one Christmas. I think I was six years old. And whenever the union was on strike, we’d go without. So there weren’t many presents under the tree that year. Dad explained to us that he was standing up for everybody, and that he needed our help. He promised us that he’d get us more presents once he got back to work. Then the night before Christmas, somebody broke into our house. They slit the screen on one of the windows and stole everything. I woke up to my mom screaming. All our presents were gone. But that ended up being the best Christmas we ever had. Because a few hours later, six guys from the union showed up, and they were carrying bags and bags of presents.”humansofny“I think a lot of people live on the borderline of racism. I work in a machine shop with about thirty older guys. I don’t think there is one bad guy in the group. You’d like them if you met them. All of them love their families. But I’d say that I’ve heard eighty percent of them make racist comments of some sort. A lot of the older guys drop ‘n bombs.’ But if a black guy walks up, they’ll be friendly. They’ll even go out to lunch with him and share a meal. I honestly don’t think they see themselves as racist. Every one of them will deny it. They’ll point to the black guy that they’re friendly with. They won't point to the things they say when he’s not around.”humansofny“If I think back, I get depressed. If I think ahead, I get afraid.”humansofny“I work at a machine tool automation company. We build the machines that build the cars. High school wasn’t for me. I didn’t respond well to being lectured and having things jammed into my brain. So I started out sweeping floors at the factory, then I got moved into the saw shop, and now I do electrical installation. I’m up to $17 an hour now. And I’ve started studying PLC so I can move up even further. There’s actually a lot of opportunity in my field. There's not much competition. Nobody my age wants to do this stuff. They all want to go to art school or make video games or something. I think maybe it’s because too many people are being told to do whatever they want. Because no matter what you think you can be, there’s still gotta be people like me.”humansofny“My mom died of lung cancer on my sixteenth birthday. My birthday is actually coming up—this Saturday. Before she passed away, I was a good student and everything. I was probably going to get a scholarship for singing. But I stopped caring after that. My mom was my biggest fan. Even when she was really sick, she came to my singing recital in a wheelchair, with her hair falling out of her head, and she sat on the front row. I quit singing after she died. There was nobody to sing for anymore. My Dad raised us. And he was wonderful. You want to know how awesome my Dad is? He went to court and tried to legally change my birthday. Just so I wouldn’t have to go through it every year. It turns out you’re not allowed to do that. But he tried.”humansofny“My sister moved in, her five cats moved in, and her ex-husband moved in. It’s driving me nuts. My sister watches those murder programs. And her ex-husband is Irish so he keeps talking about the potato famine. He loves that potato famine. Always the potato famine. And those cats. Little Louie is sweet, but the biggest cat looks like Garfield and won’t stop meowing. His name is Nitro. I’m trying to keep it together. I just picked up one of those positive thinking books.”humansofny“I broke up with my girlfriend this morning. We’d been together for three years. But I’m Catholic, and she doesn’t know if she believes in God or not. I wanted to propose to her one day. I think she’d be a great mom and a great wife. But I feel like this might be something we can’t overcome. I want to get married in a Catholic church. I want to raise my children to be Catholic. It’s important to me and it's something that we’d have to deal with eventually. So I didn’t think it would be a good idea to keep putting it off. But it really hurts to lose her. Both of us were bawling our eyes out. She was such a big part of my life. Every time something good happens, she is the first person I want to tell. And I do respect that she refuses to believe in something just because I do. But I don’t know what to do. I’m hoping God will give me an answer.”humansofnyMacomb County has made a lot of news lately. A northern suburb of Detroit, the county is largely ‘blue collar’ and its economy is heavily dependent upon the auto industry. Last week Macomb County voted decisively for Donald Trump. It was the first time in almost thirty years that a Republican presidential candidate has carried Michigan. Many pundits have pointed to this shift as representative of a greater movement among America’s white working class. For the next couple of weeks, I’ll be posting stories from Macomb County. I didn’t ask anyone who they voted for. Very few of the stories even touch on politics. And while the series cannot presume to be representative of an entire region, hopefully it will introduce you to a few of the people who live there.humansofny“Both my parents were Italian immigrants. We grew up in the Marlboro projects. My dad was a butcher. He was very ‘old country.’ I don’t think he once told me that he was proud of me. But it didn’t bother me. He taught me that you have to earn every single thing you get in life. On my twenty-fifth birthday, my Dad ran into one of my coworkers. I’d just been promoted to deputy foreman. They told him how great of a job I was doing. My dad came home, grabbed me by the neck, pulled me toward him, and kissed me on the forehead. There were tears in his eyes. He told me how proud he was of me. And that meant more to me than anything I’d done until then. It’ll probably be another twenty-five years before I hear it again.”humansofny“I first ran for Congress in 1999, and I got beat. I just got whooped. I had been in the state legislature for a long time, I was in the minority party, I wasn’t getting a lot done, and I was away from my family and putting a lot of strain on Michelle. Then for me to run and lose that bad, I was thinking maybe this isn’t what I was cut out to do. I was forty years old, and I’d invested a lot of time and effort into something that didn’t seem to be working. But the thing that got me through that moment, and any other time that I’ve felt stuck, is to remind myself that it’s about the work. Because if you’re worrying about yourself—if you’re thinking: ‘Am I succeeding? Am I in the right position? Am I being appreciated?’ – then you’re going to end up feeling frustrated and stuck. But if you can keep it about the work, you’ll always have a path. There’s always something to be done.”humansofny“I covered a lot of Trump rallies as a journalist. I didn’t feel any hatred. People were more curious than anything. I was never assaulted. I felt like most people were just supporting him because he wasn’t part of the establishment. Or because they were tired of politics. But it was confusing. Because even though I didn’t feel like they hated me, these people were supporting someone who said I should be banned from the country. Even the father of one of my best friends supports Trump. This man had me over to his house. I went to Thanksgiving with him. My friend asked him: ‘Dad, how can you support that man? Our friend Zahra is a Muslim.’ He told her: ‘Don’t worry. He won’t do everything that he says.’ Today has been difficult. These last few weeks, it was mostly speculation. There was suspicion that most Americans supported him but I could hope that it was wrong. But now that hope is gone. And I have to feel differently. I have to feel like maybe most Americans don’t want me here. And I feel like no matter how hard I try, I’ll never be part of the community. And even if they’re friendly to me, or if they invite me to Thanksgiving, deep down they believe that America is a country that belongs to white people.”humansofny“I’m on a tour to study music with African roots. It’s not for school or anything. It’s just a personal project. I want to travel alone for an entire year with just clothes and my drumsticks. I’ve saved $6000 and I plan to work along the way. My first stop was New York. I’ve been here two weeks and I went to ten concerts. I’ve already spent $300 so I need to be more careful. I’m about to catch a bus for Detroit. I found a place where I can live in exchange for a few hours of daily work. Then I’m going to Chicago, St. Louis, Memphis, and New Orleans. Then Cuba. Then Brazil. Then Peru. And after that I’ll go home to France. I want to learn as much about music as possible. But that’s only half the reason for the trip. I also want to learn if I can do it. I am a little afraid that I’ll get lonely, but that’s something I want to figure out. I want to know if I can be alone.”andruwh@humansofny Enough of us did show up. And we won the revolution. You weren't invited.humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“I grew up, like, savage. My stepfather abused me starting at the age of four. My mother threw me out when I was fourteen. I became addicted to drugs. I fell in love with a drug dealer and we had a daughter. He hit me but I had nowhere else to go. I tried to get away from everything when I turned nineteen. I thought: ‘I’m leaving Puerto Rico and I’m going to change.’ But on the plane to New York, the guy next to me was a heroin user. And he convinced me to try it. And things got worse in New York. It was even harder because I was alone. I ended up in the street. I was jumping from house to house. I was doing what I had to do to survive, you know. The government took my children away. I was lost for so many years but I’m a new person now. I’m sober and I’m working and I’m going to church. But I struggle a lot. I have all these emotions and I don’t know where they come from. It’s like I can’t control them. And when I’m with other people, I feel less. My past always comes back to me. I say to myself: ‘Who do you think you are? You’ve done so many bad things. And you don’t even know how to talk right.’ I can never get away from the things that I’ve done. But Jesus forgives me, you know? He knows that I’m a sinner person and he still loves me. My past does not matter to him. He is changing my thinking. He is helping me start new. Without him, I would have nothing to hang onto.”humansofny"I'm a woman and I'm Andrea and I'm living my dream."humansofny“The hardest part of first grade is 'eleven plus eleven' because a lot of the class don't be knowing that."humansofnyToday marks a major milestone in the history of geriatric canine literature! The @susiesseniordogs book was released today. After months of breathless anticipation, scholars and critics agree: ‘Susie’s Senior Dogs has set a new high-water mark among books that have nice pictures and sweet stories about old dogs who find new homes.' The author, coincidentally, is my wife. She worked so hard to make this book perfect and it came out wonderfully. The book will warm the heart of every dog lover. Moby, Simon, and I are very proud of her. And Erin is using every penny that she makes to pay for the medical bills of old foster dogs-- so that they’re healthy and happy when they arrive at their new homes. The book only costs $15 human dollars. So please consider getting Susie's Senior Dogs for yourself or the dog lover in your life!  Link in bio.humansofny“The world doesn’t respond to me like it used to. Throughout my life I had learned to anticipate a certain pattern of focus and friendliness. And I never realized how much of that was based on my youth and physical appearance. I thought it was because of my energy and personality. But I’ve had to accept that a woman becomes less and less visible as she ages. It begins to fade in your 40’s, and drops off in your 50’s. You have a harder time holding people’s attention. The conversations become less about you, and more about the transaction. It used to really bother me. I would feel abandoned or ignored. But I’ve grown out of it. There’s a certain grace to letting go of the need for attention. I was an actor for most of my life. I was all about getting attention. But now I’m working as a sign language interpreter, which I love. Because it isn’t about me at all.”humansofny“I was born in Venezuela. I moved here two years ago. I want to be President of Venezuela to change things and make better the world. Did you know that sometimes in Venezuela people shoot each other on purpose? I will change that. Also there will be rules against pushing people or thinking bad thoughts about people. I will make a rule so that there will not be too much cutting or killing of trees. And there will be a rule against killing too many animals because animals eat insects, and we can’t have too many insects. I will also make sure that we don’t waste water or food. Or if there is food left over, we have to be sure to put it in the trash. I can’t be president now because I’m only eight. But I did skip first grade.”humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“A few years ago I had to have open-heart surgery. When I got the news from my cardiologist, I went into full panic mode. Suddenly there was nothing going on in the world except for my fear. I thought that I was going to fall apart in front of my kids. I ended up walking to the bookstore alone. I was looking for anything that might help calm me down. And I ended up grabbing The Power of Now. It’s not an easy thing to describe in words, but that book taught me how to stay in the moment. It taught me to step back and observe my thoughts, to label them as ‘thoughts,’ and to create a gap between myself and the ‘voice in my head.’ Once I realized that I am separate from my thoughts, it took away their power. This photo was taken an hour before the surgery. I’m with my grandson. And there isn’t a fear in my mind. I’m locked in that moment with him.”humansofny“I smoked dope every day for twenty years. I thought I was pretty slick. I could smoke while working. I could get high and still run my company. I could pour concrete. I could roof a building. I felt like I could do anything. But it ruined my marriage. I didn’t even realize it until years after my wife left me. But the dope ruined my marriage because it made me content. Nothing could bother me. Her feelings didn’t bother me. Her needs didn’t bother me. The dope put an emotional cover over what should have been obvious. I told myself that if I didn’t see the problem, then it didn’t qualify as a problem. All I ever did was give her advice. I never asked for it. I never once felt the inspiration to say: ‘Darling, I know there’s something wrong. What can I do differently?’”humansofny“I grew up on a farm in the panhandle of Texas. One day I was driving my father’s tractor, feeling sorry for myself, and trying to figure out what I was going to do with my life. I’d flunked out of law school. I couldn’t play football or tennis. The only thing I’d ever been good at was performing. In high school, I’d played the lead role in both the junior and senior plays. So I saved up enough money during the harvest season to buy a little red Yamaha motorcycle. Then I drove to Dallas so I could go into show business! I did some plays in Dallas, then I got a touring role in Fiddler on The Roof, then I rode my motorcycle to Hollywood to be a movie star! I got my first big role two months after I arrived. They paid me $500 a week for six weeks. I thought, “Man! This is Hollywood!’ My character was a cowboy outlaw in a motorcycle gang. He ended up getting killed by a pitchfork while trying to rescue the leader’s girlfriend from a hippie commune. You know how I got the part? I walked into the audition and told them I’d do the whole part cross-eyed. Just like this. You know how hard it is to ride a motorcycle cross-eyed? Almost impossible. But I did it! Unfortunately it ended up being the worst reviewed movie ever made.”humansofny“I don’t communicate my feelings. My entire family was like that. We’ve always sort of just swept things under the rug. I think that’s what makes me a good ER nurse. I don’t take things home with me. I can separate myself emotionally and just focus on what needs to be done. But it also makes me pretty bad at relationships. I met Gavin while traveling in Europe last year. We traveled together for two weeks, then he came home and met my family, and then we went to Mexico for a week. After that we talked every day. Gavin was the opposite of me. He was warm and happy and touchy. He’d even tell random strangers that they looked nice. But I pulled back the moment we got too close. Because I don’t like the feeling of being dependent on someone. Gavin was killed in a car crash at the end of January. He was alone in England and I didn’t even find out until days after it happened. I’ve tried to handle it like I always do. I try not to think about it or talk about it. But it’s not working so well this time. I’m taking things more personally at work. If a patient comes in the ER with similar injuries, I always ask myself: ‘What if this was Gavin?’”humansofny“I wanted to be heavyweight champion. Joe Louis was my idol. Back in the forties, it was really something for a black person to have that kind of notoriety. He was the most popular black man alive. He made you feel like you could stand up for yourself. Protect yourself. I started training when I was seventeen. The first fight I had was with a Caucasian guy. It lasted less than a minute and a half. Two punches and he was down. It’s quite a feeling to knock somebody unconscious with your fists. To know you have that power. Who’s the person in the movie that everyone loves? It’s the one who wins the fight. The one who protects the woman. The one who protects himself.”humansofny“Ten years ago I lost my job at a hotel. Somebody bought the building and fired everybody. I had four kids at home, and I went from $21/hour to $13/hour. Nobody else would hire me. Seventeen years in the hotel industry but apparently I didn’t even qualify to carry a suitcase. I had to start parking cars at a garage. Luckily I ended up getting this job with the city. They started me at $12/hour but I’ve worked my way up to $30/hour. But I don’t take things for granted anymore. I used to dream about all the nice things I wanted. I’m more cautious now. I mainly think about protecting the things I need. And I try to make myself irreplaceable. I try to have perfect attendance. Every time there’s extra training, I sign up. Because the more you know, the more they need you. All of us are replaceable, but I’m doing my best to make them need me as much as I need them.”humansofny“We met at a swing dance class. For the next two months, we spent a lot of time together: we went out for drinks, went to music festivals, went for walks around town. But nothing was happening. Not even a kiss. It was driving me crazy. I was always on the phone with my friends, trying to figure this guy out. I thought I was being pretty obvious. Then one night I pulled out all the stops. I cooked him a five course meal, we drank a lot of wine, and we ended up on the couch together. But still nothing!” ...... "I realized after I left that night that I probably should have kissed her. Something about the look on her face. But hey, I’m a modern guy. A woman can make the first move. Plus my last relationship had hurt me a lot. But I made up for it two nights later. We went out to an Italian restaurant for her birthday. And one of the waiters gave her a birthday kiss. Then suddenly four more waiters are giving her birthday kisses. And I’m feeling a little jealous. And I’m drinking a lot of champagne. Then after dinner we went out to a club. And ‘Promiscuous Girl’ comes on by Nelly Furtado. And I’d been practicing my swing dancing. So I twirled her around like this. And then boom.”humansofny“In New York you have to focus so much on sustaining your lifestyle. There’s not much time left for other people. In the city things are expensive and your job is constantly being devalued. Fifteen years ago I could support myself as a freelance translator. Now that job is being outsourced or done online. So you have to always reinvent yourself. You have to focus so much energy on yourself. And it can be exhausting. Back in the Dominican Republic, there’s much more of an emphasis on community. People have time for each other. There isn’t as much wealth and people aren’t as focused on the acquisition of things. When I go back, people stop me on the street to say ‘hello.’ They ask about my family. We get together to have dinner. And I don’t mean ‘go out’ for dinner. I mean ‘get together.’ I bring the plantains. They bring the avocado. There’s a closeness. People focus on each other. But that can be asphyxiating. Because that means people are watching over your values and deeds. There’s a lot of judgment. There’s an expectation that you’ll live like your parents and peers. So yes, there can be lot of self-centeredness in New York. There’s not enough time to focus on the lives of others. But that’s why the world comes here to learn tolerance.”humansofny“I want to empower women through dance. I think you can build confidence through movement. When a woman starts moving her body, and becomes comfortable with herself, and realizes that she can do the steps— it connects back to life. Because all of life is movement. Technically we’re dancing every day. And it doesn’t matter how you look. It matters how you move.”humansofny“Ever since the twins were born, I’ve had a new urgency in terms of my art. I want to figure this all out so the girls can have a nice house and a nice childhood. Right now I make animations for commercials. But maybe I can sell a show idea. Or make a book. Before the twins were born, I used to wait around for inspiration. But I don’t have that luxury anymore. So I try to sit down and draw something every single day. I’ve learned that inspiration is kind of baloney, anyway. Ideas will come along if you do the work. This is a story idea that I’m working on. It’s kind of corny, but I wanted to make a book where my girls are the heroes. I want them to feel exceptional. Here they are stuck between a rock and a hard place.” -----------------You can follow Dan's art here: @danandjasonhumansofny“I was never the best student. But luckily it’s a relationship driven world. I’m in sales. And it’s important to be knowledgeable, but my job is primarily to get clients to like me more than the next guy. All of our competitors sell very similar products. The differences between us are very small. So it comes down to one thing: ‘Who does the customer like more?’ And I want that to be me. But it's a lot of work. Relationships don’t just materialize. I’m always on my phone. I answer emails immediately. I send ‘thank you’ notes for everything. And if I ever read an article that reminds me of a conversation we had, I’m sending it along.”humansofny“I was pregnant the first time he hit me. I found another woman in his house. And when I asked who she was, he got violent. He told me: ‘You are not my mother. You have no right to ask me about this.’ Then he hit me. And there was nothing I could do. That sort of behavior is accepted in Nigeria. Nobody is going to call it ‘domestic violence.’ If you tell the police, they will tell you to listen to your husband. But things are different in America. So I left my husband six months after we arrived. I entered a domestic violence shelter. I became a single mother. And I was doing fine. I was working as a security guard and my children were not suffering. But then one day my daughter called the police and told them that I hit her. But that is my right. A mother has the right to discipline her children. They were disobeying me. But the government took my children away and now they won’t give them back. They are oppressing me with their power.”humansofny“I’d been harboring a crush on him since 5th grade. But I thought: ‘I’m gonna be in the friend zone for a long time.’ Because I’m normally not the kind of person who’s liked in that way. But I thought, ‘Go for it.’ So I started flirting. I’d say things like, ‘You look nice.’ Or ‘I like your hair.’ Then we started going to different high schools, so we started texting a lot. And every once in awhile I’d use a heart emoji. Or a kiss emoji. And if he ever had to dress in a suit, he’d send me a picture. So things were going well. Then one day I had an orthodontist appointment near his school and we decided to meet at Starbucks. After his mom dropped him off, we went on a walk by the stream. Then we sat on a bench. And I saw him flip a coin. So I thought he was bored. But right after, he gave me a kiss.”humansofny“My father was a good man. He always had a job. He never drank. He never smoked. But my mother was never stable. We were evicted so many times. She spent all our money on drugs. When I was in sixth grade, she stabbed my father in the stomach with a butcher knife. I'll never forget that sound. It sounded like a suction cup. Then another time she threw lye on his face and his skin came off. But my father stayed through it all because he didn’t want us to be alone with her. I don’t tell my psychiatrist about my mother. I don’t want him to look at me like I’m her. I hate when people do that. Some people say I’m just like her. Because I get violent. I stabbed somebody too. But I’m not like her. Because I got help. I’ve been on Lithium, Xanax, everything. I love myself right now. But I don’t like myself when I’m not on my medicine. Because everyone pushes my buttons. Everything bothers me. I get evil.”humansofny“I didn’t realize it was possible to be so proud of someone for rolling over.”humansofny“I went to community college when I was twenty-one. I just had an epiphany that I wasn’t really doing anything with my life. I was staying out drinking until 4 AM every night. I was working retail. I was dating a guy who was a total douchebag. When I told him I wanted to go to college, he told me ‘Let’s be real. You’re never going to pass. Don’t waste your time.’ So at the beginning my whole motivation for going back to school was to prove people wrong. I went to all my classes. I turned in well-written papers, not bullshit ones. And it was hard, but I discovered that I liked the feeling of making good grades. So I started doing it for myself. And I never looked back. I remember taking an anthropology course that first year, and one of my assignments was to write a paper on New York City nightlife. I went to the same bar that I used to go to every night. Except I wasn’t drinking. I was just watching and taking notes. And I saw this girl my age playing beer pong, and she didn’t have a care in the world, and she was stumbling around, and she didn’t realize why the guys were being so nice to her, and she was probably spending money that she didn’t have. And I remember feeling so glad that I wasn’t that girl anymore.”humansofny“It got to the point where I was stealing from stores, breaking into car windows-- everything but prostitution. I was living in the streets. Sometimes I wouldn’t shower for weeks at a time. Then one day I was walking down 149th by Lincoln Hospital, and I bumped into a drug counselor named Mr. Crespo. He took me to get some food. He gave me a few dollars. And he told me that I didn’t have to live like this anymore. I went to the methadone clinic the next day. And now I’m hooked on that instead of heroin. It’s a mixed blessing. At least it’s coming from a doctor and not a pusher. I always know where my next fix is coming from. I can work now. I can pay bills. I can be reliable and productive. It doesn’t get you high like heroin, but it takes away the urges. But it’s like liquid handcuffs because the withdrawals are just as bad. If I stop for twenty-four hours, it feels like fire in my bones. And they only give you one dose a time. So I get to the clinic every morning at 6 AM, and there are already one hundred people in line.”humansofny“My friend and I were walking home from watching live music, and two police officers approached us. We weren’t being loud. We weren’t drunk. But they told my friend they needed to search him. They told us they were looking for a 5’10” black male, which happens to be the description of most men in this neighborhood. So that’s an excuse to search every black male who walks down the street. And that’s not right. My friend was a flight attendant. He had a college degree. He was wearing a button down collared shirt. He tried to ask, ‘Why?’ But I told him to be quiet. I told him to do as he was told. Because I didn’t want to escalate. I didn’t want the guns to come out. I didn’t want him to be another hashtag. So they emptied his pockets, they patted him down, and they let him go. And I was so mad afterward. Because I’m very pro-black. I go to protests. I’m in a black sorority. But in that moment I couldn’t speak, because I was too afraid of what might happen.”humansofny"Your appearance is the first thing you say to somebody."humansofny“I’m artistically brokenhearted. I wanted to be a screen actor. I wanted to change the world through my sensitivity. But it was a very closed system in Italy. There are only like five movies per year. And there aren’t exactly auditions. You must be friends with the director to get a role. So I tried going to Britain. And that almost destroyed me. I was always cast as a foreigner. Usually I was a Mafioso, but I played all types of foreigners. I’ve been a Spanish waiter, a Turkish waiter, and a French waiter. And they were always making me wear a mustache. So I tried for America. I applied for an ‘extraordinary talent visa.’ It cost me $6,000. The application was the size of a book. I had to submit ten letters of recommendation to prove that I was extraordinary. What a scam that was. Nobody cares that I’m extraordinary. None of the television stations will audition people with this visa. Everyone wants to see a green card. I can only work on small productions. But things have gotten a little better. I’m getting some minor roles. I’m still playing gangsters. But sometimes I’m the funny gangster. Or the gangster with some sense. My next role is a scientist who turns into a zombie. In the movie, every stranger appears to be a zombie. But nobody is really a zombie. Strangers just seem like zombies. So, hey, there’s a moral message there.”humansofny“A few months ago, my friend drowned in a swimming pool while I was with him. We were just hanging out. I was cooking for us. Then I stepped away to take a phone call, and when I came back, he was face down at the bottom of the pool. I was only gone for a few minutes. I don’t even know what happened. He never told me that he couldn’t swim. I tried CPR and he was still alive when the ambulance came. I prayed so hard. I called everyone I knew and asked them to pray. I called prayer lines. Everyone prayed for him at church. I was hoping that everything would be OK and that this could just be part of my testimony. I was hoping I could say: ‘I dedicated my life to God, and here’s what happened.’ But my friend passed away. He’d actually been dead the entire time I was praying. And it’s been so confusing for me. Because right before this happened, I’d been feeling so close to God. I was volunteering at church. I was going to midweek services. I was reading books. I was giving more of my money. I was partying less. I was trying to stay positive, and be mindful, and use less bad words. And I felt so close to God. I’d have conversations with him while standing on the subway platform. But it’s been hard lately. It’s hard to read my Bible verses. I’m scared to ask for anything. I say ‘thank you’ when I wake up every morning, but anything beyond that is very difficult.”humansofny“Success feels like an aggressive act to me. It feels like I’m kicking someone in the shins. I’m about to get my masters degree, but the rest of my family is struggling to survive. My mom is a high school dropout. My twin brother committed suicide. Nobody in my family has money. So whenever I start to succeed, it feels like I’m putting myself on a pedestal and leaving them behind. It causes anxiety. I don’t like to feel better than them. So I usually self-sabotage and knock myself back down.”humansofny“I quit drugs three years ago. I was in a desperate place. I knew I was doing the wrong thing but I still couldn’t stop. Then one morning my brother asked me to come to church with him, and I came to know God. I started crying when the preacher asked if anyone wanted to come forward. And I haven’t done drugs since. Not long after that I met my girlfriend on a dating website. And she’s changed my life completely. She’s got her shit together. She’s got a job, she owns property--- she doesn’t quit. I want to be a different man because of her. I’ve actually got an interview with the MTA in three hours. I sent them my resume forty-seven times. I need the pension and benefits so we can have children. She tells me that I should be doing it for myself. I tell her: ‘I am doing it for myself, but because of us, and thanks to you.’”humansofny“I have electrosensitivity. When I’m exposed to electricity, it’s like one thousand scorpions stinging me. It’s like every description of fire in the bible. There is no ‘off the grid.’ Because the grid is everywhere. So I live ‘between the grid.’ I have a lot of memorized safe spaces. I’ve tested all the stoops in the neighborhood, and this is an especially good one because it has a lot of wrought iron going into the ground. I wear seven layers of shielding clothes. I wear silver sterling boxers. I wear conductive socks. And nobody protects me because they think I’m imagining things. They think that they can decide how much I can take. Some people even point their cell phones at me. It’s like they’re punching me without punching me. Even after I explain the science, I get pigeonholed as crazy. The bigotry is maddening. Because even if I remove all my quantified evidence, and I say that I believe it hurts me-- that should be fine. I have the right to choose how much radiation I’m exposed to.”humansofny“I’m studying to be a counselor for battered and abused women. I haven’t had any actual cases yet because I’m still learning. But eventually I want to help abused women clearly understand the situation that they’re in. Seventy percent of cases go unreported. There are a lot of reasons that women don’t speak out. Some have low self-esteem and feel like they have no other options. Some are afraid. But a lot of women just genuinely love their partners, and they convince themselves that it’s ‘just a phase.’ They think that things will get better. There can be a lot of idealism involved. I work at a bridal salon now. At our shop, we never call women ‘customers.’ We always call them ‘brides.’ Because brides are special. Marriage is a dream come true. I can see it in the brides' faces when they try on their dresses. They feel like they’ve finally found their ‘happily ever after.’ And it can be hard to give up on that idea. Even if they’re being abused.”humansofny“I grew up in a small town in North Carolina. Only five people in my graduating class even left the town. And I left but I haven’t done anything. I feel like: ‘Yah, I had this dream, but it was bullshit.’ And now there’s nothing to say about me. When people ask what I'm doing, there's nothing to say. Back when I was in college, I could say that I was a student. I was majoring in film and television. But now I’m just doing an internship and working at a grocery store. And it bothers me to tell people that. I’m actually afraid to meet new people. And I don’t know why. Because everyone who works with me is nice and educated and has dreams. And I don’t judge them for working at a grocery store. Yet it bothers me to tell people that about myself.”humansofny“The first time I met Jack, I thought to myself: ‘Here’s a gay guy who’s not cynical, who’s not sarcastic, who enjoys life.’ He had so much energy. He was a fifth grade teacher and he’d always get so excited when he talked about his work. He’d produce these plays where he’d let the kids choose their own characters. He’d spend hours writing out their dialogue. And then I’d pretend to be one of the fathers and go sit in the audience. It was so fun. We had so much fun together. But the whole time we were dating, there was always part of me that thought I could do better. I was a fancy lawyer. Jack never seemed ‘cool enough’ for me. And so I left him for a gorgeous twenty-one year old. Jack and I remained friends. We even continued living together. But his therapist told him never to date me again. So he dated other people. And he got sick. Both of us got sick, but Jack was the one who died. And he might have lived if I hadn’t been such a bad person. If he'd been 'enough' for me, he'd never have gotten HIV. The funny thing is-- I’d grown up thinking that I’d never be loved. Then a wonderful person loved me. And I left him to have sex with somebody who wasn’t a wonderful person. Jack died thirty years ago. I dream about him almost every night. It always feels good to see him alive. For a moment, I don't have to blame myself for his death. I usually ask him for forgiveness. And some nights he forgives me. But other nights he doesn’t.”humansofny“I’m not Barack Obama. I’m not Bill Clinton. Both of them carry themselves with a naturalness that is very appealing to audiences. But I’m married to one and I’ve worked for the other, so I know how hard they work at being natural. It’s not something they just dial in. They work and they practice what they’re going to say. It's not that they're trying to be somebody else. But it's hard work to present yourself in the best possible way. You have to communicate in a way that people say: ‘OK, I get her.’ And that can be more difficult for a woman. Because who are your models? If you want to run for the Senate, or run for the Presidency, most of your role models are going to be men. And what works for them won’t work for you. Women are seen through a different lens. It’s not bad. It’s just a fact. It’s really quite funny. I’ll go to these events and there will be men speaking before me, and they’ll be pounding the message, and screaming about how we need to win the election. And people will love it. And I want to do the same thing. Because I care about this stuff. But I’ve learned that I can’t be quite so passionate in my presentation. I love to wave my arms, but apparently that’s a little bit scary to people. And I can’t yell too much. It comes across as ‘too loud’ or ‘too shrill’ or ‘too this’ or ‘too that.’ Which is funny, because I’m always convinced that the people in the front row are loving it.”humansofny“I was taking a law school admissions test in a big classroom at Harvard. My friend and I were some of the only women in the room. I was feeling nervous. I was a senior in college. I wasn’t sure how well I’d do. And while we’re waiting for the exam to start, a group of men began to yell things like: ‘You don’t need to be here.’ And ‘There’s plenty else you can do.’ It turned into a real ‘pile on.’ One of them even said: ‘If you take my spot, I’ll get drafted, and I’ll go to Vietnam, and I'll die.’ And they weren’t kidding around. It was intense. It got very personal. But I couldn’t respond. I couldn’t afford to get distracted because I didn’t want to mess up the test. So I just kept looking down, hoping that the proctor would walk in the room. I know that I can be perceived as aloof or cold or unemotional. But I had to learn as a young woman to control my emotions. And that’s a hard path to walk. Because you need to protect yourself, you need to keep steady, but at the same time you don’t want to seem ‘walled off.’ And sometimes I think I come across more in the ‘walled off’ arena. And if I create that perception, then I take responsibility. I don’t view myself as cold or unemotional. And neither do my friends. And neither does my family. But if that sometimes is the perception I create, then I can’t blame people for thinking that.”humansofny“It started getting really bad in ninth grade. Shaking hands became uncomfortable. I couldn’t touch money. I couldn’t eat with utensils if they had touched the table. Door knobs were the worst. Touching them felt like touching dog poop. It got to the point where I couldn’t even play bassoon, and that’s what I love the most. My bed became my only safe space. I’d stay in bed for a week at a time. I dropped out of school. Once I didn’t leave the house for an entire month. I got committed to a psychiatric hospital three different times, and honestly that was a relief. It was like an escape from existing. But I’m happy with where I am now. I’m on so many medications but I’m doing much better. I’m leaving the house twice a week. I just finished a bassoon lesson. I’m starting an internship soon. And I’m applying to music schools this fall.”humansofny“We met in college. He walked me home from school every day for five years. We would talk about everything: how many kids we wanted, how we wanted to raise them, our roles in the home, where we wanted to live, and even where we wanted to go on vacation. So there really haven’t been many surprises. A lot of couples only seem to talk about important things if they’re forced to make big decisions. And there can be this moment of: ‘I didn’t really know you.’ And there’s pressure to make a decision. And that’s when the biggest arguments seem to happen. We've luckily managed to avoid that because it’s all been discussed before. We've been married for fifteen years but we still walk home together from work every night. We're actually doing that right now.”humansofny"I'm rebooting my life entirely, again. It's time for Andrew 5.0."humansofny“Every day seems like a new low. I’m currently going through a transition with housing. I’ve got issues with her father. I’m on my own for the first time. I don’t even know where we’re going to live. But she’s always trying to cheer me up. One time she drew a rainbow, and put it in the mailbox, and told me I had mail. When she saw me crying on Mother’s Day, she said: ‘I got you, Mommy. You’re the best Mommy ever and I’m always going to hold you down.’ And she learned this song from the show Yo Gabba Gabba. It goes: ‘If you try it, you’ll like it.’ So that’s what she says to me whenever I feel like I can’t get out of bed.”humansofnyVery proud to announce that Principal Lopez (@thelopezeffect), known in some circles as Nadia, has just published a book: The Bridge To Brilliance. For those of you who followed her story last year, here’s an opportunity to learn more about her story. In addition to describing her journey, she shares lessons that she’s learned while founding a middle school in one of the city’s most economically disadvantaged neighborhoods. The New York Times called her book: “A valuable depiction of what it takes for principals and teachers to reach children in the most troubled communities.” Anyway, we’re proud of her. If you’re interested in education, want to be inspired, or just want to support Principal Lopez, you can get her book wherever books are sold.humansofny"I'm going to first grade. We're gonna do hard stuff."humansofny(5/5) “I tried to make it as comfortable as possible for him. We tried everything. We went to every trial and appointment. Larry really thought he was going to make it. And I encouraged him as much as I could. Even when he went blind. Even when I had to carry him to the bathroom. We still thought he was going to make it. We were always moving forward. Then one night we were lying in bed. And I knew it was over. He was covered in ulcers, and dehydrated, and emaciated. And I told him that I loved him, and that we’d get through this, but at that moment I knew it was over. Five days later he stopped breathing. I never talked about Larry in our support groups, but my patients somehow found out what happened and a bunch of them came to the funeral. So this is has always been more than professional to me. I know about trauma. And I know the treatment works. Because I’ve been through it.” -----------------------------------------------------------
Gerard Ilaria is the head clinician at Headstrong Project. He has provided one-on-one treatment for most of the veterans featured in this series. Many of those veterans credit him with saving their life. For the rest of the day, we are holding a fundraiser to help Gerard and Headstrong in their mission to heal veterans with PTSD. The organization’s budget last year was only $750,000. We’ve raised over half that so far. A small donation will go a long way, so please consider donating: The link is in the bio.humansofny(4/5) “This works feels very familiar. I ran an AIDS program for twenty years before I started working with veterans. Both jobs involve a highly stigmatized diagnosis. And both involve counseling people who have had a horrible, unexpected experience. I began working with AIDS during the 1980s. It seemed like we were losing an entire generation of gay men. We had no fucking idea what was happening. It was terrifying. The moment I shook a new client’s hand, I’d steel myself for his death. My clients never lived more than two years and I had 125 at a time. I tried to reassure them as much as I could. I tried to help them with their shame. But mainly I just tried to manage their terror. Our support groups could be gruesome. Participants would come in with IV poles and we were losing people every single week. Group members could look around the room and see the specter of their own future. It was horrifying. But they came anyway. They came every week because it was better than facing it alone. This work has always been more than professional to me. Because after work every single night, I’d go home to my partner, and care for him. Because he was dying too.” -----------------------------------------------------------------
Gerard Ilaria is the head clinician at Headstrong Project. He has provided one-on-one treatment for most of the veterans featured in this series. Many of those veterans credit him with saving their life. For the rest of the day, we are holding a fundraiser to help Gerard and Headstrong in their mission to heal veterans with PTSD. The organization’s budget last year was only $750,000. We’ve raised nearly half that so far. A small donation will go a long way, so please consider donating: The link is in the biohumansofny(3/5) “Trauma causes the brain to malfunction. During a traumatic experience, memories cannot be processed correctly. So a person with PTSD is still carrying those traumatic experiences around in their body. Because those experiences were never filed away into the ‘past tense,’ the brain continues to operate as if the trauma is happening in the ‘present tense.’ It’s like a computer with a program that's running constantly in the background. The idle is way too high. And it’s an exhausting way to live. So those memories need to be revisited and processed. And we have an amazing way of doing that. It’s called EMDR. I won’t explain it here, but it works. It takes away symptoms. It won't turn you into a yogi who sits on the beach. But it will take away panic attacks. It will take away insomnia. And it will take away suicidal idealizations. We aren’t changing anyone. But we are getting people back to their best self.” --------------------------------------------------------- Gerard Ilaria is the head clinician at Headstrong Project. He has provided one-on-one treatment for most of the veterans featured in this series. Many of those veterans credit him with saving their life. For the rest of the day, we are holding a fundraiser to help Gerard and Headstrong in their mission to heal veterans with PTSD. The organization’s budget last year was only $750,000, so a small donation can go a long way. Together we can significantly magnify Gerard’s impact: The link is in the bio.humansofny(2/5) “PTSD results from an overactive sympathetic nervous system. It’s the same part of the brain that kept our ancestors alive when lions jumped out of the bushes. It’s ‘fight or flight.’ If a soldier’s mind stays in that mode for too long, it doesn’t always come back. Everyone expects veterans to return to normal when they come back home. The kids are so excited that Daddy’s back. Their spouse wants them to get a good job, and join the rotary, and save for a bigger house. But it’s only the veteran’s body that has returned to safety. Their nervous system is still living in a dangerous place. PTSD creates the feeling that something terrible is always around the corner. It can cause anxiety, confusion, and isolation from loved ones. But worst of all, it can make it seem like things will never get better. Most of my clients report a sense of foreshortened future. And that’s the first symptom I treat. Because the stakes could not be higher. Everything else can wait. First and foremost, we're a suicide prevention program.” --------------------------------------------------------- Gerard Ilaria is the head clinician at Headstrong Project. He has provided one-on-one treatment for most of the veterans featured in this series. Many of those veterans credit him with saving their life. For the rest of the day, we are holding a fundraiser to help Gerard and Headstrong in their mission to heal veterans with PTSD. The organization’s budget last year was only $750,000, so small donations will go a long way. Together we can significantly magnify Gerard’s impact: the link is in the bio.humansofny(1/5) "I understand that it’s not sexy to talk about treatment. But the maddening thing about PTSD is that it’s completely fucking fixable. The narrative about it has got to change. PTSD is not Uncle Joe from Vietnam. It’s not homelessness. It’s not a heroin addiction. It’s not the end of the world and it’s certainly not suicide. PTSD is an anxiety disorder and we can treat it. But you’ve got to get help. In the military, you hear things like ‘shake it off’ or ‘rub dirt on it.’ And those are great messages for people at war. But you’re home now. You’re back with your families and the warrior mindset is no longer appropriate. If your nervous system is broken, it needs to be fixed. Just like a broken leg needs to be fixed. It’s that simple. You may have served with guys who don’t have issues-- that’s great for them. But that doesn’t mean they are stronger than you. It means they don’t have the same nervous system as you. It’s not weakness. It’s science. And it can be solved." --------------------------------------------------------- Gerard Ilaria is the head clinician at Headstrong Project. He has provided one-on-one treatment for most of the veterans featured in this series. Many of those veterans credit him with saving their life. Gerard often speaks out passionately against the ‘warrior culture’ of the military. He believes that an overemphasis on ‘toughness’ and ‘not needing help’ contributes to the stigmatization of PTSD. He believes this stigma keeps veterans from getting the help they need. For the rest of the day, we are holding a fundraiser to help Gerard and Headstrong in their mission to heal veterans with PTSD. The organization’s budget last year was only $750,000, so a small donation will go a long way. Together we can significantly magnify Gerard’s impact: The link is in the bio.humansofny“I went out for beers one night with my battalion commander-- Colonel Willy Buhl. He really cared about us. He was one of those leaders who’d remember the name and birthday of every man in his battalion. So we’re sitting at the bar one night, and we’re talking about all the men we’d lost to suicide. A number of Marines from our battalion had killed themselves since we’d been home. And there had been an especially bad one recently. One of our guys had shot himself with his wife and kids downstairs. Colonel Buhl and I realized that there’d soon be a point in time when we’d lost more Marines to suicide than to enemy action. And I knew we had to do something. It’s an epidemic. Every veteran knows another veteran who’s taken their own life. We have to do better. So I approached a top psychiatrist and public health expert named Dr. Ann Beeder, and I asked her a question: Can we take all the friction out of the process of getting help? The Headstrong Project was our answer to that question. We wanted to create a treatment option with zero cost and zero bureaucracy, so that a veteran’s only challenge was showing up. All they have to do is overcome the stigma of PTSD.” -------------------------------------------------------Zach Iscol is the founder of The Headstrong Project, which partnered with HONY to tell the stories of veterans suffering from invisible wounds. Headstrong has ambitious plans to remodel the mental health treatment of veterans, and has already helped hundreds of veterans. But the organization operates with very limited resources. If you’ve been moved by any of these stories, we’re holding a fundraiser to help The Headstrong Project in its fight against PTSD. Please consider making a small donation. Link in bio.humansofny“The military is mostly filled with people who genuinely desire to do the right thing. More Marines receive the Medal of Honor for jumping on grenades than any other action. It’s a culture where officers eat last and everyone shares their water. These people grew up as boy scouts and girl scouts. The whole reason they volunteered was because they wanted to do the right thing. But the right thing is never clear in war. If you shoot too early, an innocent person gets killed. If you shoot too late, you lose a buddy. So a lot of our injuries are moral ones. Most of us come home feeling like we did something wrong. Or we didn’t give enough. Or that our friends gave too much. My best friend in the Marines was a guy named Ronnie Winchester. He was the nicest guy you can imagine. My 22nd birthday was during our officer training course. None of us had slept. We were all starving. We were only getting one ration per day. But Ronnie wanted to give me a memorable birthday. So he put a candle in his brownie and gave it to me. That’s how nice of a guy he was. Ronnie ended up getting killed in Iraq. And if a guy like Ronnie got killed, you can’t help but wonder why you deserve to be alive. Ronnie was 25 years old when he died. He is always going to be 25 years old. I have a wife and kids now. I get to grow old. But Ronnie Winchester is always going to be 25.”humansofny(6/6) “We like to say that God has a plan, but we just didn’t get to have a say in it. After the boys died, we dedicated our lives to encouraging young people to get help with depression. So many soldiers are afraid to seek help. They’re afraid to tell the Army. They’re afraid of what their fellow soldiers will think. We want them to know that it’s no different than asking for help with a broken arm. After the boys died, we never thought we’d be happy again. Carol felt suicidal herself. I felt guilty for even laughing. But happiness returned slowly. Our daughter Melanie is doing great. She’s a runner, and a swimmer, and a nurse. I ended up getting promoted to general on September 22nd—Jeffrey’s birthday. My boss engraved my sons’ names on each star. During the ceremony, while he was pinning the stars on my shoulders, he told me: ‘Kevin and Jeffrey will always be with you.’ When I became a general, I was allowed to select an aide. I interviewed eight people for the position. I chose a fantastic young man named Joe Quinn. And Joe is now my son-in-law. He ended up falling in love with Melanie, they got married, and we’re expecting our first grandchild in a month. We are just giddy about that. So ‘happy now’ is different than ‘happy then,’ but we do feel happiness again. ‘Happy now’ is Melanie and Joe. ‘Happy now’ is our future grandchild. And ‘happy now’ is a young soldier who hears Kevin’s story, and tells us that they got help.”humansofny(5/6) “I knew the moment Mark came home. The general was with him. That morning I’d seen on the Internet that two soldiers were killed in Iraq. I immediately walked into the bathroom, and Mark was shaving, and I asked him if he thought it could be Jeff. He told me: ‘No way. We’d know by now.’ So when Mark came back home a few hours later, I knew. I started finding pictures of the boys together, and spreading them out on the table. I kept thinking: ‘The boys are together, the boys are together, the boys are together.’ I think I freaked out General Valcourt. He probably thought I was crazy. But saying those words was the only thing holding me together. The boys had always been so close. They were best friends as well as brothers. They did everything together. They even joked that they’d build their houses together, and share a pool, and share a dog. After Kevin’s death, Jeffrey always told me: ‘Don’t worry Mom. He’s with me. I can feel it.’ All of us kept journals when Kevin died. The grief counselor recommended it. But Jeffrey was the only one who kept it up. He addressed every entry to Kevin. They shipped us Jeffrey’s journal when he died, and the last thing he’d written was: ‘I’ll be in touch.’”humansofny(4/6) “Jeffrey was set to deploy not long after Kevin’s death. I begged him not to go. I remember we went on a walk, and he said to me, in this real mature voice: ‘Dad, you know I have to go. My men need me.’ And I said: ‘Jeff. You don’t have to go. We need you here. Mom needs you, Melanie needs you, and I need you.’ But he insisted. I was a colonel at the time. And even though the father in me couldn’t understand, the soldier in me did. Jeffrey had to make his own path. He left for Iraq on Kevin’s birthday—November 15th, 2003. He was killed three months later. On that morning my boss was scheduled to leave on a trip. He was a two star general. We spent the morning together, then he told me ‘goodbye,’ and I assumed he left for the airport. But a few minutes later, I stepped into his office, and I found him standing alone in the dark. I said: ‘Sir, did you miss your plane?’ And he started walking toward me. And I knew. I knew when he took that first step. And he grabbed me, and he said: ‘Mark, it’s Jeff.’ And I said: ‘Is he hurt?’ And he told me: ‘Mark, he’s gone.’ And I said: ‘Are you sure?’ And he said: ‘I’ve known all morning. I verified three times.’ I thought ‘No, no, no, no, no. This can’t be. This isn’t possible. Not both of them.’”humansofny(3/6) “I lost my dad when I was eleven. So I know what it means to be sad. I just didn’t know that you could die from being too sad. Kevin called us the night before. He hadn’t been sleeping. He’d been up all night playing this game called Sim City, and he’d just beaten the game. He’d become a four star general or something, and his friends were so happy for him, but he sounded so sad. He said: ‘I did everything the world says is success, but it’s not all it’s cracked up to be.’ Then he quoted Henry David Thoreau-- that line about the masses living lives of quiet desperation. And he was crying. And I said: ‘Kevin, I’m so proud of you. I’d be proud of you even if you were digging ditches. If it’s the Army, drop out. I’ll pay back the scholarships.’ But he told me: ‘Dad, I can’t quit. It’s the soldier’s creed.’ So I just told him that I loved him. And that was the last time we spoke. We got a call the next night from Jeffrey. They were living together at the time. Jeffrey was hysterical. He said: ‘Dad. Kevin’s gone!’ I said: ‘What do you mean? Gone?’ And he said: ‘Kevin’s dead! He hung himself!’ And I just started screaming: ‘No! No! No!’ And I told Carol what happened. And she wasn’t crying. I remember feeling scared that she wasn’t crying. She just fell on the floor and started crawling to the living room. She was trying to get to her Bible.”humansofny(2/6) “The Army was different back then. You have to remember, we had all those years of peace. For us it was swim meets and soccer games. Mark signed up to coach all the kids’ teams. He didn’t want to miss a moment with them. We had three children. Jeffrey was our oldest, then Kevin, then Melanie. Jeffrey was a leader like his Daddy. He wanted to build things. He erected tents in the living room. He slept in a sleeping bag. But Kevin was different. He was the tenderhearted one. He felt the pain of the world. I remember how shocked he was when he learned about slavery in school. He couldn’t even eat when he learned about the Holocaust. Jeffrey would always say: ‘Kevin! Stop thinking so much! Let’s go play soccer!’ But Kevin always felt like he had to figure out the world. He was our smart one. He wanted to be a doctor. He got two scholarships to college. He was the top cadet in ROTC. I knew that Kevin struggled with sadness. But I just gave him a bunch of Mom advice: ‘exercise more, ‘sleep more,’ ‘eat more vegetables.’ I tried to pray it away. I wrote letters to God, asking to lift Kevin’s ‘spirit of depression.’ And we didn’t tell anyone. I thought: ‘He’s doing so well in school. Don’t rock the boat.’ We kept it a secret. So I think we share in what happened.”humansofny(1/6) “We met in college. Mark had long hair and a beard. He was class president so there were posters of him hanging up around campus. He was really cool. I was kind of ‘not cool.’ I played saxophone in the band. I was a Christian. Neither of those things was very cool in the 70’s. I tried to impress Mark by participating in a blood drive that he was organizing. I ended up passing out and they had to wheel me out in front of the rest of the students. But we started dating eventually. Everything happened so fast after that. We got married when we were twenty-one. When he proposed, Mark told me: ‘I just want you to know that I probably won’t live long.’ His father had died of a heart attack at the age of thirty-one, so Mark was convinced that he'd die young too. Neither of us ever dreamed it was our boys we would lose.”humansofny“We were built to think alike. Everything is so standardized in the military that you can function without thinking. If I ever needed night vision goggles, somebody could throw me their bag, and I’d know exactly what pocket to find them in. We were like cogs in a wheel. And that may sound like a bad thing—but it’s not. Nobody wants to think of themselves as cogs in a wheel, but humans love structure. Our behavior is predictive. All of us tend to be in the same place, at the same time, every single day. The tendency is just accelerated in the military. And it feels good. It feels good to know your place. It feels good to wear the same uniform. It feels good to know exactly what you’re contributing to the mission, to the team, and to the country as a whole. Your value is so clear. But then you come home and the lines are blurred. It's hard to discover that value again. You’re not sure where you fit. You’re not sure how you connect to other people. You’re not sure how to make a difference. It can be very isolating. And all you want to do is be back on a team.”humansofny“I don’t feel good about it. It will bother me for the rest of my life and honestly I’m happy about that. I’m embarrassed by how little I knew. I was a kid from Texas. I flew on a plane for the first time when I went to boot camp. I had this visceral desire to seek vengeance for 9/11, and I believed our government when they told me that there was a connection to Iraq. So I fully supported the war. I thought we were bringing bad people to justice. I didn’t understand the nuances. I didn’t know anything about the people of Iraq, or the culture, or the country. And I feel ashamed about that. I’m getting my graduate degree in Middle Eastern history right now. And the more I learn, the worse I feel. I got so much personal benefit from being in the military. In many ways it was the greatest thing I’ve ever done. But I could have gotten those personal benefits from other means. I was in Iraq for one year. And the trauma of that year will impact me for the rest of my life. But for the people of Iraq, it’s been ten years. And they’re still being traumatized on a daily basis.”humansofny“I have professors at Columbia who view me as a terrorist for fighting in Iraq. But I believe that America is an example to be emulated, and I went over there to provide those people with basic human freedoms. But when you get over there you realize that you’re fighting kids. Everyone was kids. You see it when they’re dead. These weren’t the guys who were flying into towers. These were kids who grew up poor, stepped into the wrong madrasa, and were manipulated by people with a shit load of money into executing somebody else’s worldview. None of them came out of the womb hating. None of them came out of the womb thinking anything else but holy shit this is a bright beautiful world.”humansofny(2/2) “In Afghanistan I spent so much time imagining what it would be like when I came home. I built up this perfect world. I imagined eating a big cheeseburger. And taking the longest shower. And meeting up with all my friends. Maybe we’d even take a trip to the beach just to catch up. And everything would be just like when I left. And people would be so happy to see me. Because they’d be thankful for the sacrifices that I made. But when my plane landed, nobody was there to meet me. My mom couldn’t afford to take off work. My father had died while I was gone. The rest of my family couldn’t afford to travel. One of the first things I did was visit the two friends who had written me letters. The whole time I was in Afghanistan, I only got four letters from two friends. So I had to visit them right away to tell them that those letters meant the world to me. But after those visits, I was pretty much by myself. So I sat in my room and I started thinking. I’d been so busy in Afghanistan. There was always a job to do. But now it was quiet. So I thought about all the things that I’d kept at bay. I thought about the little girl that I saved. And what her life is like now. And I wondered if she’s still alive. And if she is still alive, does she even want to be?”humansofny(1/2) “ I don’t think it’s possible to be a medic in a conflict zone and not have something stay with you. Something that you didn’t have before you went. I have the hardest time forgetting this little girl. She was brought to our post one day. Two men ran toward us carrying a bundle of blankets. And they’re yelling in Pashto. And at first all I can see are these bloody blankets, but then I peel them back, and there’s this little girl inside. She stepped on a landmine while playing soccer and she’s gone below the knee, gone below the elbow, gone below the hand. And everything is seething. And I can smell the flesh. And she’s screaming. But I’m trained to drown it out. I’m trained so well that I almost don’t hear the screaming. I focus on our interventions. Stop the bleeding. Apply tourniquets. Administer the IV. I overdosed her on morphine. I’ll never forget that. I just kept pushing until the screaming stopped. And then a helicopter came and got her. And she lived. And I was fine throughout the whole thing. I was just like a robot. I’d been trained for chaotic situations. But they don’t train you for the aftermath. They don’t train you for when the helicopter has lifted off, and suddenly everything is quiet.”humansofny(3/3) “After I had the flashback that night, two of the guys on my team came up to me and said: ‘You’re getting help.’ I said: ‘No I’m not.’ And they said: ‘Yes you are. Most of us do.’ And that finally convinced me. I’d never gotten help because I never wanted to appear weak. I’m the son of a man who lost his entire team in Vietnam. I’ve been through some of the toughest training on earth. I never quit anything in my life. So it took me the longest time to admit that I had a problem. Whenever I saw a homeless vet, or an alcoholic vet, I’d say: ‘That’s not me. I’ve got a good job. I’ve got a family.’ I did my best to cope with my issues through physical exertion. I threw myself into work. I’d go for long swims in the morning and long runs at night. I thought if I never stopped moving, I could hold down my stress. But it finally caught up with me. And I broke down. And those two guys convinced me to go to therapy. And it was the best decision I’ve ever made. I used to think that I was weak for needing help. I realize now that my weakness was never getting it.”humansofny(2/3) “I kept having these nightmares of being trapped in a burning vehicle. They were non-stop. I’d wake up screaming and I couldn’t breathe. I wasn’t sleeping at all. I was overworked and going through a horrible divorce. At the time I was working as a medic on a SWAT team, and one night at work I had a really bad flashback. We were about to serve a warrant. All of us were in the back of a truck and it was completely dark because we were preserving our night vision. And somebody turned on a red flashlight to adjust their equipment. And I'm seeing our shadows on the wall, and suddenly I think we're in a helicopter. And I’m trying to fight it but it seems so real. I’m telling myself, ‘Keep it together. Keep it together.’ I know it’s not real but I'm actually smelling the fuel and hearing the sounds of the turbine. And then the back door opened. And the next thing I know, I'm standing on the third floor of this building with no idea how I got there. And that was the last raid I ever did. We had a training session later that week. Afterwards I closed myself in a van, put down my rifle, and started to cry. I was stressed to the hilt. The next day I started looking for help.”humansofny(1/3) “I was inside an armored carrier with my platoon commander. He tried to open a pressurized fuel container and it sprayed across the vehicle and hit a camping stove that he was using to make hot chocolate. It burst into flames. He dropped the fuel canister and fire covered the floor. Then he caught on fire. He grabbed onto the exit hatch and wouldn’t let go. I couldn’t pull him away. And he wouldn’t let go. And the vehicle is filling up with flames. It was so fucking hot. It’s like when your hand is on a stove except you can’t pull it away because it’s your whole body. And it’s so bright and I can hear him screaming. And the hood around my neck is shrinking and tightening. And my Gore-Tex uniform is melting and spreading and falling off my body. And I could feel myself burning and I couldn’t take it anymore. I gave up. I didn’t want to burn to death. I decided to take a deep breath to singe my lungs and close my throat. Then the hatch opened. Someone heard us screaming and opened the hatch.”humansofny(2/2) “We celebrated my Dad’s 50th birthday two weeks before. It was a surprise party. I wanted to borrow Stephen’s truck to help pick people up from the airport, but he wouldn’t let me. He tried to stop me in the driveway. But I took it anyway because I’m the older sister. He was livid. That truck was his baby. He ignored me for the entire party and we never spoke again. My last conversation with my brother was a fight. I can’t change that. My mom said that Stephen called her during those last two weeks and forgave me for taking his truck. But I think she’s just telling me that so I won’t feel so responsible. I’m not saying that the fight caused his suicide. But we could have talked it through. We were eighteen months apart. We used to drive to school together every single day. If I hadn’t fought with him, he would have felt comfortable calling me. And we could have talked it through."humansofny(1/2) “Everyone who comes back from deployment fills out a form. It’s a standard psychological evaluation. It asks about drug use, sleeping habits, things like that. We filed a Freedom of Information Act to see Stephen’s. He checked a box that said he thought about suicide. And they sent him home. The counselor just scheduled a sleep study and sent him home. And he hung himself with an electrical cord. Stephen should have never been a soldier. He was a happy, go-lucky guy. We used to go camping all the time when we were little. He disappeared from the campsite once and we found him in the woods with chipmunks in his hand. He never wanted to hurt anything. If there were ever ants in the house, he would take them outside. He never told me about the war. I don’t know how it affected him. And I can’t say what caused his death. Personally I think it was PTSD. But his wife had recently left him. He’d gotten demoted. But it doesn’t matter. He told them he thought about suicide. He checked that box. And they still sent him home. So whether it’s right or wrong—I do blame them. If someone says they are thinking of suicide, you need to listen.”humansofny(4/4) “He didn’t even tell me he was enlisting. He called his dad one day and said: ‘Don’t tell Mom.’ I remember it was Halloween. We were trick-or-treating with our grandson, and I noticed that my husband was walking ahead of me, whispering with my son-in-law. When he finally told me, I supported his decision 100%. I think it was a defense mechanism. I focused on supporting him so I wouldn't feel afraid. I just didn’t want the military to change him. I raised four children. I knew how each of them was different. Chris was the one who felt things the deepest. He wanted to help people. And I didn’t want him to see something that changed him forever. That was my prayer every night. Other moms in our town had sons who went to war. I’d heard stories. They told me that their sons had seen too much. They just weren’t the same when they came home. When Chris first got back from Afghanistan, I didn’t notice much difference. He seemed to be spending less time with us, but he was recently married, so that seemed natural to me. But one night he came over and asked us all to sit down at the kitchen table. He said: ‘Mom and Dad, I want to tell you something.’ I thought he had cancer. But he said: ‘I’ve been diagnosed with PTSD.’ When I heard those words, my heart sank. I thought it meant forever. I thought it meant a lifetime. But he explained to us that he was getting treatment. And that it was going away. My husband is a retired police officer. After Chris left, he said to me: ‘I’m so proud of him for talking about this stuff. Because I never did.’”humansofny(3/4) “Sometimes my anxiety would get so bad that I’d turn completely white. I’d shoot out of bed some nights, and my heart would be racing, and I’d start running around the room trying to find stuff. My wife would have to physically put me back to bed. Then one day I was taking a train out of Hoboken, and we were passing through these wetlands, and there were all these reeds, and it reminded me of Afghanistan. And I looked down at my phone and there was a Facebook post commemorating the anniversary of the death of a guy in my company. And I got dizzy and couldn’t talk. I thought I was having a heart attack. I just couldn’t take it anymore. I had to get help. I went to the emergency room at the VA and was diagnosed with PTSD. Eventually I found my way to Headstrong Project. At first I dreaded going to therapy. I went through a treatment called EMDR. My therapist would take me back to every point of trauma and have me describe it in detail. It was like literally going back in time. I could touch the faces of all the guys I’d lost. I could talk to them. We could talk about what happened. And how we all knew the risks. And how sometimes people died. And it was nobody’s fault. And I could apologize to them. And when it was over I’d be completely exhausted. And I’d feel like a bitch because I’d just cried for an hour. But it worked. The symptoms started to go away. After a few sessions, I remember walking into my therapist’s office and saying: ‘This stuff actually works!’ And he said: ‘Yeah. It does.’”humansofny(2/4) ‘If you don’t do your job, people will die.’ That message was hammered into our heads during officer training. Even if you tied your boots incorrectly, an officer might get in your face and scream: ‘You don’t care about details! Details get people killed in combat! You’re going to get people killed!’ Over and over, it was drilled into me that people would die if I messed up. And nine of my guys died. So it’s been extremely hard to forgive myself. Maybe I didn’t work hard enough. Maybe I didn’t set high enough standards. Maybe I didn’t put enough stress on the importance of details. The first guy in my company who died stepped on a bomb that was hidden under a footbridge. That was a rule. That was a detail. We were never supposed to walk over footbridges. He knew that. Maybe I didn’t tell him enough times. I can see his face right now. If he was sitting here, I’d say: ‘Mike. You weren’t supposed to do that. You know you weren’t supposed to that!’"humansofny(1/4) “I was in charge of 250 Marines during my second deployment. We were assigned to a district called Sangin. Most of Afghanistan’s poppy was grown there, and the heroin it produced funded the Taliban’s war effort. We didn’t have a clear mission. Our job was to establish a ‘presence.’ We were supposed to make the Taliban as uncomfortable as possible. Our mission wasn’t to take any hills or to kill a certain number of enemy combatants. And that lack of clarity could be frustrating. Guys were getting killed but we had no concrete ways to measure our gains. The best I could do was tell them that our mission was to ‘make Sangin a better place.’ Every day I’d send them on patrols. I’d sit in a small mud room, square like this, with maps on the walls and a radio on the table. And the patrols would call back if they needed support. Some days it was chaos in that room. Multiple patrols would come under fire at the same time and they’d all be calling at once. We lost nine guys over those six months. Dozens more lost arms or legs. Others had serious gunshot wounds. I remember sitting on an ammo canister the day before we left, with my head between my knees, wondering if we’d done anything at all. And a village elder came up to the gates of our base. He wanted to thank us for making the area safe enough so that his village could finally return to their homes. That was the only tangible difference that I’d seen in six months. It was the ray of light I needed.”humansofnyMany of you remember Sara from the Pediatric Cancer series last month. I’m very sorry to report that shortly after her story was published, Sara’s cancer returned very aggressively. Yesterday morning she passed away. I’d like to honor her by reposting her story, and allowing Sara to be remembered by her own words: “My biggest worry is that I’m going to die and not do all the things I wanted to do. The funny thing is—I didn’t even realize how many things I wanted to do until I got diagnosed. Simple things like meeting a guy, getting married, getting a job, having my own apartment, and even picking out my own furniture. Those never seemed too interesting to me. They just seemed like adult things that were guaranteed to happen. Now I want to do them so bad. Because I want to know what they feel like.” ------------------------------------------------------
Our fundraiser for Pediatric Cancer research at Memorial Sloan Kettering is still active. If you’d like to make a donation in honor of Sara, you may do so here: http://bit.ly/1NZZMFchumansofny(3/3) “It wasn’t every second of every day. But sometimes I’d get this boiling feeling like there was mercury in my blood. And it would rise up into my head and I’d get so angry it was like I was going to explode. And all I could think of was worst-case scenarios. And it felt like there was no way out. I’d work myself into such a frenzy that I thought there was only one way to eliminate that feeling. And I’ve already lost seven veterans that I know to suicide. Two of them were very close to me. These were educated guys. And they seemed happy. You’d meet them, and think: ‘These guys are so great.’ And I knew if it could happen to them it could happen to me. So I came here and I started unpacking this shit. It was a lot of work. The therapist just guides the conversation. You have to dig up stuff you thought you’d packed away forever. And you have to answer questions that you never answered. It’s exhausting to go that deep. But it works. I feel like I’m in control again. I know my triggers. I don’t flip out. I don’t send inappropriate emails at work when I feel slighted. I still have bad days but I’m in control again. I was afraid therapy would cause me to lose my edge. That didn’t happen. It made me stronger. It’s like gym for the mind. And I don’t want to lose one more veteran. That's why I'm telling my story right now. I don’t want anyone to be afraid to look under the hood. Therapy is like Men’s Wearhouse: ‘Give it a try. You’ll like the way you look. I guarantee it.’”humansofny(2/3) “All we wanted to know was who the bad guys were. But nobody knew. We were getting picked off one by one and we couldn’t find the bad guys. Some guy who was helping you during the day might kill you at night. The enemy didn’t wear uniforms. Far more innocent people got hurt than anyone else. It wasn’t malicious. It was just legitimately confusing situations. When you’re driving to a meeting and a car bomb explodes, suddenly every car looks like a bomb. And you’re surrounded by cars. And anybody could have a suicide vest. And you’re surrounded by people. It was threat overload. And it was mentally exhausting. One day we were driving to a small village to pick up a young Iraqi boy. We were going to fly him to the US for a rare heart surgery. And I’m in the back of the convoy doing rear security. And this woman in a burqa starts walking toward me. And I’m shouting in Arabic for her to stop, but she keeps coming. And I can see she’s carrying something. She’s clutching something inside her burqa. And she won’t stop. And I keep trying to wave her away. I’m screaming at her and pointing my gun but she keeps coming closer. And I’m thinking that I have to kill her because she has a bomb. I have to do it. And I switch off my safety, and I’m just about to pull the trigger, and suddenly she opens up her burqa. And there’s a baby inside.”humansofny(1/3) “We got called out one day to assist a fuel convoy that was being pinned down by gunfire. They had stopped along an open field, and were taking fire from a tree line about 200 meters away. When we arrived, I noticed a small truck about 50 meters out. It had stopped on a farm road running along the field. There were legs hanging out of it. I was acting medic for the platoon so I went to investigate. And they’re obviously not combatants. It’s this family of six. I guess they’d been driving toward the convoy and somebody got scared and shot them up. It’s just a mom and a dad and four kids. And there’s this unique, awful smell when your guts open up. And everyone’s dead except the father and this eight-year-old girl who’d been shot twice in the chest. And she’s crying. And this wasn’t what I came for. I thought we were here to kill bad guys.”humansofny(4/4) “I never thought Iraq was a good idea. I thought it was a stupid war. I remember getting into an argument with my Dad about it. But the war started, so it became a question: ‘What am I going to do about it?’ Was my best choice to stay in Cambridge and hold up a protest sign? Or was it to deploy and try to create a better outcome for the guys who were going to war no matter what? It’s complicated. Did I kill people? If I did, you paid me to do it. You didn’t have to pay your taxes. Our military may have fought the war, but our whole society went to war. All of us were part of what happened.”humansofny(3/4) “You see this really fucking horrible stuff. You see guys blown to bits. You see dogs eating people. And the whole time there’s this little voice in your head that says: ‘That’s not normal, that’s not normal.’ And the longer you stay in that place, the quieter the voice gets. That voice is like your anchor. If it gets too quiet, it’s hard to come back. If I’d stayed in Fallujah for two years, maybe I’d be fucked up. But I left after a month. The experience profoundly affected me. But it doesn’t haunt me. I don’t think I’m sick. I’ve had complete strangers tell me that I’m in denial. There’s this tendency to pathologize the entire war experience. And recently ‘PTSD’ has become a catch-all to describe every veteran with a mental illness. I’m just not comfortable with that trend. A lot of good Marines have PTSD. But a lot of us don’t.”humansofny(2/4) “The 2nd Battle of Fallujah began on November 8th, 2004. The plan basically called for the entire 1st Marine Division to form a giant line and advance through Fallujah from north to south. The city was overrun with insurgents. My company commander ordered the platoon that I led to establish a forward position. Forty-six of us snuck across a highway at 3 AM to seize a building 150 meters in front of everyone else. It was a candy store. The guys were excited at first because the place was filled with chips and soda. And we were starving and thirsty. But all hell broke loose when the sun came up. RPG’s started slamming into the side of the building. We could see guys in black sneaking up all around us. My platoon sergeant was shot through the helmet and knocked unconscious. Another of our guys got shot in the femoral artery and his blood covered the floors. And we couldn’t get out. Every exit was dialed in with machine gun fire. You couldn’t even poke your head out. We were pinned down all day. And suddenly my company commander is on the radio saying that we’ve got to advance. And I’m shouting into the radio over the gunfire that we're probably going to die if we leave the store. I’m shouting so loud and for so long that I lost my voice for four days. But he’s saying that we have no choice. He’s being pressured by his commanders, all the way up to the generals. And the generals are being pressured by the White House. And all my guys are looking at me because they know if I lose that argument, we're going out there. And I lose the argument. And I tell them that we have to go. But instead of running out the door, we piled a bunch of explosives on the back wall, and we blew it out. And we ran. And everyone survived. Twenty-five guys were wounded, but everyone survived. A lot of that was luck. And a lot of that was our platoon and how good those guys were. But I also feel that my decisions mattered that day. And if I had decided not to serve, and stayed home, it could've ended much worse. So no, I don't have any regrets about going to Iraq.”humansofny(1/4) “My brother went to Harvard. He’s ‘Good Will Hunting’ smart. I lived with him in Cambridge for a while, and I visited the campus chapel, and up on the walls they had the names of every Harvard man who’s died in war. The list was so long for World War I and World War II. It went all the way to the ceiling. But the list got thinner and thinner as time passed. The best and the brightest didn’t show up for Vietnam. And I understand. I get that it was an unpopular war. But they chose to not show up and there was a consequence for that. There were leadership failures. Standards were lowered and people were killed because of bad decisions. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were going to happen whether I chose to participate or not. I was a fortunate son of this country. I had a good family. I went to a private school. I graduated from a great college. A lot of the guys who served under me didn’t have those advantages. They relied on me to make tough decisions in dangerous situations. And I’m glad I was there to make those decisions.”humansofny(3/3) “I know guys who look back on the war as the best time in their lives. They’d love to go back. They only see themselves as a soldier and I want more for them than that. I want them to be OK with being home and finding new and better ways to be themselves. What happened to being a good person? Or being the best version of yourself? I think at the end of the day, everyone just wants to feel good about what they did. And so do I. But I don’t. I don’t want to wave the flag and say we killed those motherfuckers. I don’t want to be thanked for my service. I don’t think it made anything better and I don’t think we won any hearts or minds. For a long time after I got back, I isolated myself in a cabin and drank all the time. Then at one point I decided that I was going to try everything possible to feel better. I was going to try acupuncture, chiropracty, therapy, and if nothing worked, I was going to kill myself. Recently I’ve been experimenting with femininity. I’ve never been feminine. My father put me in mixed martial arts when I was nine. I became a blackbelt and a kickboxer. I was always the tough chick. Now I’m trying to go in the opposite direction. I'm being very cliche about it. I’m doing yoga. I’m wearing dresses everyday. I’m wearing make-up. I even joined a woman’s group. Every month we have a sacred circle on the new moon and do guided meditations, set intentions, and eat chocolate. God, this is harder to talk about than bombs.”humansofny(2/3) “We had a company commander in Iraq—let’s call him Captain Johnson. He was in charge of all the medics. He set the rosters, scheduled the convoys, and coordinated with other units. He was also fucking his secretary but that’s less important. We were nine months into our deployment, and Captain Johnson decides to go out on a convoy with us one night. That wasn’t his job. His job was to stay inside his office. But that night he decided that he wanted to go. And during the convoy one of the trucks hits an IED. And guys are screaming ‘go, go, go’ over the radio, and we’re trying to push through the hot spot, and small arms fire keeps bouncing off our vehicles: ‘plink, plink, plink.’ It sounded just like the opening scene in Saving Private Ryan. I hate that movie because they got that sound so perfect. And as soon as we were out of the area, Captain Johnson has us stop on Samarra Bridge to repair the vehicle. And it was so stupid to stop there. Because that bridge was getting blown up every other week. And we’re sitting on that bridge, pointing our M-16’s into the dark, and people are whispering ‘do you hear that?’ And we almost shoot at our own infantry because we don’t know it’s them. And I asked Captain Johnson why he came with us. And he told me: ‘I have two sons at home. I need stories to tell them.’ And I hated him so much in that moment. Because I didn’t want this shit. When I signed up, they told me I’d be working in a hospital. I wanted to be safe, but I wasn’t allowed to be. But he had a choice, and he chose not to be. Just because he wanted war stories.”humansofny(1/3) “I didn’t fit in too well in training. I came back from drinking one night and I was three minutes after curfew. My senior drill sergeant told me that he was going to punish me because a few medics had noticed I was late. So I asked him: ‘Do you decide what kind of leader you are based on who’s watching?’ He didn’t like that. He screamed at me and made me do a bunch of pushups, and me being a drunk-ass, I was calling him a ‘pussy’ and ‘motherfucker’ the entire time. So he reported me to the company commander, who reported me to the battalion commander, and I end up at this formal hearing where they make me listen to all this awful shit about myself. And then they asked me if I had anything to say. I’m pretty sure that I was supposed to keep quiet, but I had typed out this whole speech about how my senior drill sergeant didn’t embody Army values. So I read my speech, and when I finished, everyone was pretty mad. A command sergeant major started screaming in my face. He looked like Clint Eastwood if Clint Eastwood was only five feet tall. After he was done yelling, he ripped my insignia off my uniform, escorted me from the room, and with a mix of disgust and pride, said: ‘You’ve some got balls.’”humansofny(5/5) “It’s the most embarrassing thing a grown man can experience. It’s like having a nightmare while awake. It happened not long after I’d moved to New York City. I’d been isolating myself a lot after I came back from Iraq. I was on edge all the time and I got nervous in crowds. So one day I decided that I was going to try to step outside my comfort zone and drive to the Queens Center Mall. And I was parking my car in the lot, and this traditionally dressed Muslim man starts walking behind me, and suddenly I was back in Iraq, and I started to get nervous. So I walked quickly into the mall and I start hearing the sound of 50-caliber machine guns all around me, and it’s getting louder and louder, and I know that nobody else is hearing it but I swear to fucking God it’s real. And the voices around me grew louder and suddenly I can’t remember where I am. And I walked outside and started hugging this aluminum lamppost, and I tried to call my girlfriend because I didn’t know how to get home, and it felt like the world was closing in on me and I wanted to die. I wanted to kill myself. It was the only way I knew how to end this. I had to get help. I lost a whole line of mentors to suicide and I didn’t want it to be me too. Maybe some guys can come home from war and go back to mowing their lawn or fixing their gutters-- good on them. But I had to get help. It took a lot of therapy to release this self-torment. It took a lot of therapy to stop hearing those 50-calibers. And therapy is the only reason I can talk about these things today. Because I’m finally starting to get through it.”humansofny(4/5) “There was an old man who fished in the same spot every single day. He’d stand on the edge of a canal coming off the Tigris. We told him it was a bad idea. He sat on a village council, and he always voted with the coalition, so we told him it was a bad idea to fish in the same place every day. But he was seventy years old so he wouldn’t listen to anyone. And one day this fifteen-year-old kid rides by on a scooter and drops a bomb behind him. And I get called out to investigate the crime scene. My job is to take pictures, ask questions, things like that. And I get there right as the sun is going down. And a truck is lighting up the scene with its headlights. And the air smells like an old duffle bag. And I kneel down next to the crater and I start to take out my bag and I just freeze. The hole is filled with dusty, coagulated blood. And parts of this guy are floating in the canal. And it looks like somebody has thrown Smucker’s jelly all over the wall. And I just froze up. I couldn’t do it. I wasn’t supposed to be seeing this. I was an art student. I loved the human body. I always thought it was so beautiful. And not in a horny or freaky or weird way-- just in a beautiful way. I used to watch my sister dance ballet. I saw her dance in the Nutcracker five times. I loved seeing all these beautiful things that the human form could do. I always honored the human body. And now I’ve come to a place where the human body is shredded and stomped and blown to bits. And that just wasn’t me. I used to be jokey. I used to be goofy. I was Frank from North Scranton. And now I won’t ever be that again.”humansofny(3/5) “We were based out of the Baghdad Airport. I drove armored Humvees. Mainly we transported detainees between the airport and the Green Zone. The road was known as ‘Route Irish.’ We called it the eight-minute heart attack. A lot of times there was sniper fire and almost every day an IED would explode. We’d drive through traffic as fast as we could. Sometimes it was like parting The Red Sea. We’d clear our way through traffic by pointing our rifles at drivers and waving them off the road. You can understand why they resented us. Imagine that happening on the streets of New York. I’ll never forget the looks we’d get. I’ve never seen that sort of hate. My worst day was when we had to transport this really bad prisoner to the hospital. He was 6’5” and completely shackled up because he’d beaten up six of our guys. When we got to the hospital I was ordered to guard his room. The hospital was tiny. Just a few rooms. And this truck pulled up with troops. They’d been hit by an IED and were covered in blood. And they’re being carried right in front of my face. And the first guy is dead. And the second guy has no leg and he’s spilling blood all over the floor. And the doctors and nurses are slipping around like penguins. And they’re carrying this guy’s leg in a garbage bag. And I can’t leave. I’m gripping this rosary that my girlfriend’s mom gave me, and I’m praying for this guy to live, and he’s bleeding out and dying in front of me. And what’s the point of prayer anyway if God brought me here to watch this sick shit. And behind me is this huge madman that I’m supposed to be guarding. And I’m trying not to cry and I’m not allowed to move. I was trapped. It’s like somebody was holding my head and forcing me to watch hell. And in front of me, this Iraqi janitor is mopping up the blood. And he’s smiling. He’s fucking smiling.”humansofny(2/5) “I was assigned to my father’s platoon. He worried that people would think I was getting preferential treatment so he put on a serious show. I got volunteered and ‘voluntold’ to do everything. He’d make me clean the shitters and the slop sinks and then at night we’d ride home together. I saw a new side of him. I'd always known him as my father. But now I was seeing him in a leadership position where he was respected by a large group of people. While we were training, he always told us to be ready for war, but we thought: ‘whatever.’ The running joke was that the Cub Scouts would get deployed before the National Guard. But in 04’ we got our deployment notice for Iraq. They told my father that he couldn't come with us because he'd just turned sixty. It really killed him. He begged the colonel, and then the general, but everyone said 'no.' He followed us right to the door of the plane, and he was crying his eyes out, and he kept saluting us as the plane pulled away. He stood there until the ground crew made him leave.”humansofny(1/5) “My father was a platoon sergeant in the Pennsylvania National Guard. But nobody ever thought I’d join the military. I was too sensitive. I was into painting and illustration and theater. Plus I was a total goofball. I barely finished high school. I didn’t have any direction. I got fired from TCBY for giving out too much ice cream. You’re supposed to scoop a certain amount every time and I was just scooping all I could. So nobody thought I’d join the military. But one day I walked into our living room and there was a kid sitting on our couch. My father was giving him advice about joining the military. This kid was a grade below me, and I barely knew him, but my father’s hand was on his shoulder. And I suddenly felt this territorial feeling. Like he had a connection with my dad that should have been mine. And I wanted that too. So I decided to enlist.”humansofnyFor the next couple weeks I’ll be partnering with Headstrong Project to tell the stories of American veterans from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. As with any group, there will be a wide range of viewpoints and experiences. There are often conflicting feelings: patriotism, disillusionment, pride, regret, gratitude, and grief. There is a common love for America, yet differing ideas about what exactly that means. Many of these stories will include PTSD, but the hardships of returning veterans are far too nuanced for a single diagnosis. And it can be inappropriate to use PTSD as a catch-all for those hardships. So we’ve chosen to title the series ‘Invisible Wounds.’ I know that many people have strong opinions about America’s involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan. But as we meet the individuals behind the uniforms, and seek to understand their stories, I’m hoping we can momentarily put those politics aside. This is a great group of people who served and sacrificed at the request of their country. And I’m very thankful that they’ve volunteered to share their stories.humansofny“I’ve always lived off my artwork all my life. I’ve lived all over the world. I’ve had fourteen common law wives. I’ve never needed money because I’m talented. Talent is better than money because it’s always with you. Let me give you an example. Back in 1970 I was getting dinner with a Japanese model at the Sao Paulo Hilton in Brazil. This guy from Texas was sitting at the table next to me, and he’s trying to order a steak, but he keeps sending it back to the kitchen. He keeps saying: ‘The steaks are better in Texas.’ After the second time he sends it back, the master chef comes out, and I hear him say in Portuguese: ‘I’m going to kill this man!’ Now being a Galician myself, I know the character of the Latin American people. If a French person says he’s going to kill you, you don’t have to worry. The French are lovers and all lovers are cowards. Trust me—several of my former wives are French. I know this. But when a Latin American tells you that he’s going to kill you, it’s time to leave. So I walked over to the man’s table and bought him a bottle of wine, and I talked with him about Texas. I knew all about Texas because I competed in fishing tournaments there. After a few minutes of talking, I tell the man: ‘If you order one more steak, you’re going to get killed with a machete.’ So he took my advice and he left. The entire restaurant staff came out and started singing to me with tambourines. They brought out free wine and a full spread. They said, ‘Your money is no good here.’ The Japanese model was so impressed. See what I mean? Talent.”humansofny“I drove an eighteen-wheeler for fifteen years. One day I hit a lady in a Honda Civic. I hadn’t seen her at all. I just thought I’d blown a tire. Luckily nobody was hurt, but I realized my vision was starting to go. I’ve been blind in my left eye for about seven years now. It’s been really hard on my self-esteem. I used to be very outgoing and would talk to anyone. Now when I first meet somebody new, it’s like they don’t know where to look. Their eyes go back and forth. Sometimes they’ll just look straight at the ground or off in the distance. My friends tell me that I’m the only one that cares about it. They tell me that I worry about it more than anyone else. But then I wonder if they’re just telling me that to make me feel better.”humansofny“I got divorced twenty-five years ago. He had an affair. He left me with two small kids. It took a lot of time and a lot of years, but I’m OK with it now. For the sake of my kids, I made the decision to be OK with it. He’s married to the woman now. And we all get together as a family. It’s still not easy for me. I spent Mother’s Day at their stepmother’s house. That was weird. But I don’t want my kids to worry about hurting my feelings every time they spend a holiday with him. I don’t want them to feel like they need to have two separate celebration dinners for every birthday, or when they graduate from college, or get married. My daughter just had a baby, so we’re actually all in town together right now. There have been some complications so everyone is supporting her. I haven’t forgotten what happened twenty-five years ago, but for times like this, I need to be OK with it.”humansofny“I grew up in Kosovo. Over ninety percent of the population was Albanian, but Serbia controlled everything. They controlled the police. They controlled the government. They shut down the only Albanian TV station. All our documents and road signs were in Cyrillic. If you wanted to go to school, you basically had to become a Serbian. You had to speak their language and learn their history. So all of us went to illegal schools in private homes. My school only had four rooms. It was our way of staying Albanian.”humansofny“Ten years ago I was the subject of a documentary called ‘No Impact Man.’ It was about my attempt to live for an entire year with as little environmental impact as possible. My family rode bikes everywhere. We used no paper products. And the film got quite a lot of attention. I wasn’t used to the success. I’d written two history books before then. And they were good books, but they didn’t have much of a readership. Now all of the sudden I was being interviewed, and celebrated, and invited on Good Morning America. And then people started attacking me. Gawker wrote several articles calling me self-righteous, and an opportunist, and said I was imposing my values on my family. People said I didn’t care about the environment and only wanted to make money. And all the attention really caused a crisis for me. For the first time, I had a personhood that was completely different than my person. And that was exhausting. When someone called me a hero, I wanted to prove them right. When someone called me a devil, I wanted to prove them wrong. It took a lot of self-examination to realize that I was neither. There is a fullness to a person that is gigantic and nuanced and indefinable. It was equally impossible to be a hero or a devil. I couldn’t be contained by a single word.”humansofny“I work as an investigator for the Legal Aid Society. We provide legal defense to people who can’t afford it. I studied law in college, but I’m learning that the system doesn’t match up to what we were taught. According to theory, the defendant should always have the advantage. Our clients are supposed to be innocent until proven guilty. The burden of proof lies with the prosecutor. But that’s only in theory. In reality, the District Attorneys bend the rules of the system to gain maximum leverage. They don’t care about justice-- well, I’m sure there are some that do-- but the ones I’ve seen only care about winning. It’s an elected position, so they want to show voters that they are ‘tough on crime.’ And that requires higher incarceration rates. So they are incentivized to convict as many people as possible. One of their favorite weapons is to overcharge. They’ll charge a defendant with ten things. Nine of them would easily get thrown out in court, but the client just can’t risk it. So they’ll plead guilty to the one charge that even remotely applies to the case. We’re representing one client who passed out on the subway. It’s a simple public intoxication charge. But his beer bottle fell off his seat and broke, so they charged him with possession of a weapon. They know it’s ridiculous. But they know he’ll never go to trial with that charge on the table. So they’ll get their conviction. And that’s all that matters.”humansofny"We can talk until my dog is done pooping."humansofny“I’ve been out of art school for a couple years now. Eventually I’d like to make a living as a fine artist. I try to challenge myself in a different way every day. I’m always trying different colors, or different materials, or different styles of drawing. It's my way of leveling up. Right now I’m seeing if I can touch the paper only once with each mark, yet still create enough information to convey light and shade. The hope is that by challenging myself enough, I can eventually reach a level where I can challenge the art world.” @skiodinghumansofny"I was a bartender."
"I was a drunk."humansofny“My father was a fascist. He was trained to be a terrorist in Mussolini’s army. He was anti-everybody. The Irish were ‘micks,’ black people were ‘niggers,’ and Jewish people were ‘kikes.’ His main weapon was pain. He raped me, locked me in closets, beat me with broom handles. He sent me to the hospital many times. He'd threaten to blow my brains out in the middle of the street. I absorbed a lot of his emotional energy. Sometimes his voice still comes out of me. When I’m really angry, and cussing myself out, I sound just like him. It’s him inside me, speaking to me. But I didn’t become him. My grandfather saved me. My grandmother was a fascist like my father. She counted her rosary beads and condemned the world, but my grandfather was a simple man. He lived with us. He always told me: ‘Your father is a nut.’ He hugged me and kissed me. I swung between two extremes: the love of my grandfather and the hate of my father. My grandfather knew how to love. My father couldn’t love because he was too filled with terror. He didn’t have the tools to love. Once when I was fifteen, I walked over to my father and gave him a big hug. He kept his arms stiff by his side. I said ‘I love you Dad,’ and his body started trembling. There was a terrified child inside of him. He wanted to love. And he wanted to be loved. He just didn’t know how.”humansofny“It was the summer between 8th and 9th grade. We were make-out buddies. Sometimes he’d talk to me during the day. Other times he wouldn’t. We were in his basement late one night, getting drunk, and he kept asking me if I wanted to do it. My heart was racing and I was terrified. I kept saying: ‘maybe,’ ‘maybe,’ ‘maybe.’ Then he said: ‘No more maybes. Let’s flip a coin.’ My stomach sank. After we finished, he said: ‘I think I heard my dad upstairs. You need to leave.’ I went home and filled up a whole page in my journal. I wrote in purple sharpie, over and over: ‘It didn’t happen.’ For the longest time I felt like it was my fault for feeling hurt. Like I was being overly sensitive. It took five years for me to realize that consent is not a coin flip.”humansofny“I sliced the tendons in my finger while trying to cut away some waterproofing. I’d taken a few pain pills before, but I’d never been handed hundreds of them. Eventually I was taking twenty pills a day. I was going through a divorce at the time so I was pretty unstable. Back then you could ‘doctor shop:’ run one prescription through insurance, pay cash for two more. After three years I went to a treatment center and they put me on something called Suboxone. It took me four years to get off that stuff. The withdrawals were terrible. It’s almost as bad as the pain pills. And get this—the same people making the pain pills are making Suboxone. They sell you drugs to get off their drugs. It’s all a money game. Listen, it was my choice to take the pills. I know it was my fault. But somebody out there made a lot of money off my weakness.”humansofny“I volunteered to be a background actor for a friend’s film last night. We were supposed to be celebrating an engagement on a rooftop. There was a guy on set who was making drinks, and so you know, I was willing to make a sacrifice for art, so I had four pina coladas, two vodka cranberries, a few beers, and this one drink that was just rum and crushed up watermelons. I had a couple of those. Then afterwards we went to a comedy club because the tickets were free. All you had to do was buy a couple drinks. This probably makes me sound like an alcoholic but don’t worry I was hydrating. And you should have seen my friend. She was way more drunk than me. We didn’t end up getting home until 2:30 AM. I did have a voice in my head reminding me I have to wake up for work in the morning. I’m just really good at shushing that voice.”humansofny“You’re encased in a disastrous matrix of fear and loathing. You’re just a function. You’re just a function of the universe. You think you’re free. You have no more freedom than a cell on your body. The universe isn’t a democracy. It’s a monarchy. You’re just a function. The closest you can get to freedom is anonymity. Fame is the worst prison of them all. Because then people have ideas about you and ideas about your life. And if you’re not what they expect then they will fuck you up. Kanye West is the biggest prisoner on this planet. Your only chance at freedom is to stay on the fringes like me. Burn all your bridges. Who cares? You’re all lying to each other. You all hate each other more than you love each other."humansofny“My parents brought me from Guatemala when I was fourteen. Immigration wasn’t as big of a deal back in the 70’s. When I got to New York, I joined a soccer team with players from ten different countries. And you could just go to work and nobody asked any questions. My mother worked as a housekeeper at the Hilton for forty years. I was lucky. I didn’t have too hard of a time. I got to come over on a plane. But today it’s different. Right now, as we speak, people are hiding in bushes by the border. They’re running through deserts and swimming across rivers just to feed their families. I feel very bad for them. Things are very tough for the Latino immigrant. But it’s our turn. The last one to arrive has to pay for the broken dishes. You’ve got to blame somebody for the problems. It’s been like that since the first Thanksgiving. First it was the Irish, then the Polish, then the Italians. When the war came it was the Japanese. It’s just our turn. I’ve considered myself an American since I was born. I was born in Central America so that makes me an American—you guys even try to claim the name! I love the Yankees, the Giants, and the Mets. But it’s not too important what you call me. I’m just Louis, from Guatemala, living in New York. And I’m the luckiest guy alive.”humansofny“I’m just trying to make people’s lives a little bit weirder. During the week I’m a supervisor at an insurance company. I’ve got to hide my identity because I have four people working under me. I think it would be hard to hold the team together if they saw me like this.”humansofny"We met on a hike 25 years ago. He made the first move. He asked if he could help me up a hill."humansofny“I come from the small country of Gabon. It used to be the Switzerland of Africa. There are only 1.5 million people there. It has some of the largest oil reserves in the world. It is top ten in iron supplies, uranium supplies, manganese supplies—you name it. And it has the most beautiful rainforest. The country is so wealthy but the people are so poor. There is no clean water. People’s lives are defined by the search for bread. There is no education. And most teenagers have HIV. And when you get sick in Gabon, you die. I have goose bumps right now because my mother still lives there. The people are dying, yet the ruling family flies around in private jets. They give speeches at the UN and people clap. The president’s wife wears handbags that cost $25,000. The ruling family has been in power for 50 years and they get richer and richer every minute. And do you know why they’re in power? Do you know why they’re so rich? Because they hand over our natural resources to the French.”humansofny“The War In Chechnya was going on during the time I was in law school. I remember watching a news report where a young boy walked up to a journalist and asked for help waking up his grandfather. The grandfather had just been killed by a bomb. I decided then that I’d be a human rights lawyer. I went to work at the United Nations. I pictured myself drafting stronger human rights laws. I thought I’d meet with heads of state and convince them to form better laws and better institutions. And those meetings did happen. I did my research and made my presentations. You should have seen me— I was so passionate and confident and sure of my reasoning. The leaders would nod their heads, and say ‘thank you very much,’ but then nothing would change. Unless there was an economic benefit, nobody cared about protecting children, or empowering women, or stopping genocide. And it wore me down. My colleagues were worn down too. After ten years I had to quit. Last week I opened this bar. It’s not human rights, but at least now I can drink for free.”humansofny“We both know this could become one of those iconic photos. This could be one of those photos that they study one day: ‘Pretty Handsome Brother On The Corner With Obama Phone and $150 Watch.’ And we both know that if I wasn’t so statuesque, this photo never would have happened. You are about to get famous off Mr. Bradley. Now I don’t mind. I don’t mind if white, black, or purple people prosper. But when this picture sells for $10 million, you come back and find me. Cause I’m gonna need one-tenth of that.”humansofny“We’re the worst terrorists in the world and it was a long time coming. This entire country was built on the slaughter of innocents. And we got what we deserved. Just look at the history of US involvement in the Middle East. All those countries are artificial. We created those countries like plastic after the fall of the Ottoman Empire. And the only way to rule a plastic country is with a dictator. Assad, Hussein, the Shah—we propped them all up. Decades of torture, murder, and oppression. We sponsored it. So I say it whenever I can. I’ve had people threaten to kill me. I’ve had people threaten to rape my children. But I’ll keep saying it. You can call me a monster. I think the people in those towers died as representatives for the rest of us for our crimes against humanity. Not only do I think that 9/11 was deserved. I think it was one of the greatest events in human history."humansofny“I’m a probate lawyer. I represent people who contest their parents' wills. I want to write a book about all the things I’ve seen. It’s not quite The Soprano’s, but it’s close. My colleague likes to say that contested wills are the final battleground of a dysfunctional family. Everything from childhood gets brought to the surface. You’d be amazed how long people can hold grudges. And probate court is their last chance to get revenge for ‘Mom loving you more.’ The crazy thing is how many clients would rather be right than be happy. It’s almost always smartest to settle. It costs both sides more to fight it out than to make a deal. Yet people still choose to spend all their time and money, just to get a judgment from the court that will prove they’re right one final time.”humansofny"My daughter just graduated from junior high, so I'm going to my first Demi Lovato concert tonight. It's her and Nick Jonas. They have a big hit right now. I'm not sure what it's called but I've heard it a million times in the car."humansofny“There are thousands of people like me. I saw them every time I went to the racetrack. Miserable motherfuckers, all of them. Always looking for the next big score that never comes. Always nervous and depressed. It’s a very bad addiction. I never drank. I never did any drugs. But I couldn’t stop gambling. I bet on thousands of horses in my life. The more you win, the more you bet, until you lose it all again. It was the same routine everyday. I spent every morning looking for enough money to get on the subway and get to the racetrack. I did menial jobs. I sold things on the streets: shirts, belts, t-shirts, sweaters. For fifty years I did this. A lot of times I didn’t have a place to live. At least I never committed any crimes. I know a lot of guys who did. It’s a real fucking curse.”humansofny“The Korean American community is very tight-knit. From the outside it can sometimes look like inwardness or selfishness, but it’s primarily based on survival. When you’re an immigrant, feeding your children and paying your rent comes before integrating with society. And the support to do those things normally comes from within the community. For Korean Americans, the community mainly revolves around the church. Korean immigrants will go to church even if they aren’t religious. Because that’s where the community is. It’s where people speak their language. It’s where they can find information, and a network, and jobs, and people to cook them meals when they’re sick. It can sometimes seem like an unwillingness to integrate. But the closeness of the community is really about trying to survive.” -------------------- James is the Executive Director of the MinKwon Center for Community Action 민권센터 in Flushing Queens, which seeks to educate and organize marginalized members of the Korean American community.humansofny“I want to YouTube about my life. I’ll call my channel Happy Is Always The Answer. It will be a popular channel because I’m the only crazy kid in my house. I do a lot of hyper things that people will love like running and swimming and going on adventures. I’ll go everywhere and show people the Statue of Liberty and gardens that I find and other things they haven’t seen. I’ll probably have some paranormal videos too.”humansofny“We don’t have any hobbies. But we do try to get together a few times a month to judge people and complain about things.”humansofny“We weren’t poor or street. I came from a really good family. I had good examples all around me. My mother worked hard. My grandmother worked hard. I was an honor roll student at a military academy. I even graduated college with a degree in African American Studies. But I had already gotten into crack by the time I graduated, and things went downhill pretty fast. I lost jobs. I lost marriages. I went to rehab so many times. It took me twenty years to quit. But the whole time I battled my addiction, at least I had something positive to look back on. I had knowledge of myself before everything turned negative. And I think that’s why I was finally able to quit. I had a positive place to go back to. For a lot of the addicts I knew, there was nothing but negative behind them."humansofny"I'm going to be a lawyer like Daddy. I talk a lot so I'll be great at it. All you have to do is keep talking until you win."humansofny“You can’t be humble about what you deserve in this city. I had to learn that the hard way. I came here with a small island mentality. In Puerto Rico, you take what you can get, and if someone sees that you are struggling, they will help you. Not here. If you are running a business, people will step on you until you break. We first started selling coffee at street fairs. The organizers were charging us $600 per day to rent a spot. It was impossible to sell that much coffee. They knew we were losing money. They knew we were suffering. But they told us there was nothing they could do—that was the fee. Then we learned that the people next to us were paying $300. When we threatened to leave, they lowered our rent to $125. And at first they told us they couldn’t go any lower! That’s what I mean. The organizers didn’t care what was a fair price. They cared about getting the biggest share they could. You can’t wait to be given anything in this city. If you want something, you have to demand it by its name.”humansofny“I just pitched my first full softball game in our office league! We lost by one run. I was nervous the entire time but I made it all the way through. I thought we had one inning left but we didn’t. So we lost. But don’t say ‘lost.’ That sounds bad. Say that we ‘almost won.’ Say that we ‘almost won against the best team in the league.’ I want to thank the captain Chip for believing in me and letting me pitch. I didn’t think he’d let me pitch because we lost 18-2 the last time I pitched. But he let me pitch because Dan was on vacation. Chip is so great. And I want to thank Cindy for cheering me on. Every time I missed the plate she’d say: ‘Great job, Rosemary! Keep confusing them!’ I love Cindy so much. And Elvin and Jo and Kyle. I couldn’t have ‘almost won’ without them. It's so fun to be part of a team. I love them so much.”humansofny“I grew up in the projects and got involved in drugs early. I committed a stupid ass robbery when I was seventeen and ended up being charged as an adult. I got out of prison when I was twenty. I worked a minimum wage job for awhile, then I found a Korean shop in the garment district that was making counterfeit clothes. They would put any label I wanted on them. I could buy jeans for $15 and bring them up to Harlem, and I’d go to the pool hall and sell them to the Jamaicans and Dominicans for $25. I know it wasn’t exactly legal. But I finally felt like I was making an honest living. Especially compared to my past. I was working hard. Things were going well. I probably sold two thousand jeans that first year. But three days before Christmas I got robbed. Three kids ambushed me. I’d been out working all day. I was tired. My fingers were cold. And I didn’t want to hand over the money. So they shot me in the stomach. I was so angry. I felt so violated. I’d made that money by working hard and they’d taken it from me. I could feel the old Gerald coming back. I wanted to kill them. I went looking for them after I got out of the hospital. I walked the streets with my colonoscopy bag. I was so close to being pulled back to my past. But eventually the anger subsided and I went back to work. I even stopped with the counterfeit clothes and sold my own designs. I didn’t want to go back to prison. Prison didn’t correct me, but it did check me. The old Gerald is always there. Just a little bit. Like when I’m feeling desperate and I’m mad that I still can’t afford to get my mom out of the projects. But I always keep him in check. I saw too many guys in prison who were there for life. And I love life too much to be them. I want to go bungee jumping one day. I want to go fishing.”humansofny"We lived across the street from each other. He was so shy that I didn't even think he spoke English. One night I heard a car idling outside for over an hour. I went to see what was going on, and I found him passed out drunk in his car. So not exactly love at first sight but it grew from there."humansofnyBill Cunningham may have taken over a million photographs in his life. Nobody catalogued New York City’s inhabitants as devotedly or extensively as Mr. Cunningham. His work will always remain a massive monument to the city. But his biggest impact on me will always be his joy. True joy seems to subside with age. There is happiness in every stage of life, but giddiness seems to belong to the young. Mr. Cunningham remained a young man until he passed away yesterday. When I watched him work, I always kept my eyes on his smile. It was always there. And it held the secret to life. Bill Cunningham discovered what he loved, he did it every day, and he was joyous until the end. He figured it all out. And he pointed the way for the rest of us.humansofny“I lost some of my mojo. I don’t know how it happened. I had mojo in college. I had mojo in grad school. I was studying Real Estate Development at NYU, and I remember feeling like there was nothing that I couldn’t do. I felt so powerful. Back then somebody asked me how much money I thought I could make, and I remember saying ’40 million.’ But something’s changed. Life beat me up a little bit. And these days I’m wondering if I have what it takes to put together a single deal. I’m not sure exactly how it happened. But somewhere along the way, all my confidence got replaced by questions. Are you smart enough? Do you have enough resources? Who are you fooling? But I’m going to start changing the narrative. I’m taking this as a sign from the universe that I’ve got to get my mojo back."humansofny"I finished Pre-K. The best part was playing and having friends. The worst part was doing work because that's boring."humansofny“She committed suicide a week prior to our thirtieth anniversary. Our oldest daughter had died of leukemia a couple years earlier. Holly took it extra hard. We drifted apart. We’d parse our words. Nothing was natural anymore: ‘Do we talk this way?’ ‘Do we laugh at this moment?’ ‘ Do we even have a right to laugh?’ But I still thought we were doing OK. Things weren’t like they used to be. But I still thought things were OK. We rented a hotel room for our thirtieth anniversary. I was supposed to meet her there after work. She overdosed on pills before I got there. I don’t know why she did it that way. She said in her note that she wasn’t angry, but I don’t know why she did it that way. I fell apart. I started drinking a lot and doing cocaine. I lost my job. One day I was giving a presentation after being up all night on drugs, and I just started hallucinating. I thought one of the clients was Holly. I stopped the presentation and started calling her name. The company was nice about it. They gave me a nice severance package. But I gave all the money to my kids. I’ve been on the streets ever since. It’s been eight years. My kids have tried to give me the money back but I won’t take it. I ride the subways at night. If it’s warm enough, I sleep on a bench. I read a little. I write a little. I go to the soup line in the morning. I’m just existing. I wasn’t a good husband. I wasn’t a good father. And now I’m doing penance.”humansofny“My husband and I have been trying to adopt a child from foster care for six years. The process is unbelievably difficult. There’s a reason people choose to adopt from foreign countries. Right now I’m waiting on my son to finish his ballet performance. He came from an orphanage in Guatemala. Can you imagine how different his life would be if we hadn’t adopted him? So this time we tried to adopt in America. We’ve inquired on 530 cases in five years. We’ve reached the final round several times, but each time we’re not chosen. Once it seemed like we were finally on the brink of adopting five siblings. We spent so much time with them. We were bonded with them. But at the last moment, the top administrator vetoed our case. No reason was given. He thought we ‘weren’t a good fit.’ We were devastated. I still have their pictures. We’re good parents. We have six grown children and two who still live with us. Everyone is doing well. There’s no reason we shouldn’t be able to adopt. Everything moves so slowly because the bureaucracy is overloaded and underfunded. These kids have no money so they have no voice. I’m in a support group on Facebook full of people like me. Everyone is agonizing over the reasons that they aren’t being matched: too old, too many children, not enough children, not enough money. The guesses are endless. In the meantime there are 100,000 kids in this country who are waiting for a family.”humansofny“Gram died right before Mother’s Day last year. She grew up in Georgia and spent most of her childhood working in the cotton fields. She dropped out of school after seventh grade. She moved North with her family and started working in a button factory. My mom was her only child. They both almost died during childbirth. Gram raised Mom all by herself, and after we were born, she helped raise us too. My friends called her Diva Miss Eva. She’d roll down the window of her Oldsmobile to tell people to pull up their pants. And she loved pink. We took this picture on the day my mom graduated from community college. It was in the middle of June. It was so hot. But Gram comes outside in a pink evening gown, mink fur, and evening gloves. We told her it was too hot but she said: ‘My baby’s graduating!’ She loved this photo. She put it in a frame and hung it above her pink bed. In her pink room.”humansofny“I got a job at Great Adventure in 1974—the first year it opened. I dressed like a barbarian. It was OK. But then I found some costumes that nobody else wanted to wear. They had been designed for the trampoline artists in the arena show. But they hated them. So I tried one on. And the rest is history.”humansofny“I’d say twelve is the normal age when a kid around here comes outside alone for the first time. That’s when the trouble starts. When you’re fresh outside and nobody’s telling you what to do. My mom kept me inside until I was fourteen. Both my brothers had been to juvenile, so she was more strict with me. I got arrested four times that first year. Probably four times the next year too. I never went to The Island, but my mom kept having to pick me up from the precinct. They called it ‘Disorderly Conduct,’ but it was almost always for fighting. A group of kids would walk by from another block, and they’re staring, and somebody yells out: ‘What are you looking at?’ And believe it or not-- that’s all it takes. One little sentence. Everybody wants the pride of saying they didn’t back down. I could have chosen not to participate. But it’s hard to avoid. Imagine if one hundred people around you are smoking cigarettes. Nine times out of ten, you’re going to start smoking.”humansofny“Every week I get one dollar for allowance. Then I get to choose the section where I put my dollar. There are four sections: spend, save, donate, and invest. If I put a dollar in the ‘invest section,' my parents give me two extra pennies at the end of every month. I’ve only used my 'spend section' twice! I have way over $10 in my 'invest section.' I used to have more but I took some money out and put it in my 'donate section.' We used to it to buy food for people who don’t have much money in their 'spend section.'”humansofny“Your friendships shrink as you get older—unless you have a loose definition of friendship. I used to work with one of the richest guys in Philadelphia. He was seventy years old. He could have dinner with anybody in the city. But those aren’t the types of friends I’m talking about. I mean the people who really know you. I think it’s amplified for me because I’m still single. My friends have gotten married and had kids. They have less and less time to give. More and more people have come into their lives. But the amount of people in my life has stayed the same. I’ll text them to see if they want to go to a Phillies game. And I always get an immediate ‘yes.’ But something always comes up right before the game. They have to reschedule because ‘Ethan’s friend is having a birthday party,’ or ‘Sarah has a soccer game.’ It’s hard to not feel left out. I used to see these guys several times a week. Now it’s five or six times per year.”humansofny“The more contact I have with people, the better I feel: eye contact, a smile, I’ll take anything. The moment somebody makes any kind of overture, I’m heading their way. So many people ask for my photograph. I always say ‘yes.’ It’s thrilling. Aren’t we lucky? We’re so lucky to be here. This street is so full of sweetness and people. I love this street so much because it leads to the park. I can smell it. Look at that beautiful dog over there!”humansofny“There’s a strange culture in medicine. People are less friendly to each other than I imagined. I got an MD and a PhD in Neuroscience. I’m finishing my residency right now. I guess I thought that everyone would be compassionate, and would help each other, and would be nice to each other. And don’t get me wrong—I work with a lot of compassionate people. But the stress just erodes people. There’s a lot of tension and anger. We’re taught that 80 hours per week is normal and shouldn’t be questioned. But at the same time, a huge amount of work that medical interns do is administrative. It could be outsourced without affecting the quality of education or care. And the culture does real harm. I’ve had two friends commit suicide. One of them was studying anesthesiology at Yale and overdosed in a parking lot. The other jumped off the dorm building at NYU. There’s got to be a better way. I don’t know, maybe I’m just saying this because I’m stressed. I'm heading to the ER now. I’m almost at the end of my residency. I can see the end of the tunnel. But the tunnel is very damaging.”humansofny“It’s hard to raise a kid anywhere, but especially in the city. There’s just so much coming at you all the time. Look at this—we have one little dirt patch to play ball. And I have to be a navy seal just to get him to Randall’s Island on the weekend for his baseball games. It’s a lot of stress. He was born right before my job started going downhill. I’d just lost everything in my first divorce. I wasn’t hitting my numbers at work and nobody wanted to hear any excuses. I was getting pissed off at everybody. It got so bad one day that I grabbed his arm really hard. It was like a giant wave of stress just broke on top of me. It was summer and he wasn’t listening and he was acting crazy and I was trying to put together a sales pitch and it was the end of the month and bills were due and I just lost it. It was a wake up call. I had to learn to compartmentalize the stress. I’m better now. I’m a lot more present. I just wish I’d been this way with his older brother.”humansofny“Both my husband and I work in retail. I’ve worked for eighteen years at the Macy’s on 34th street. I wake up at 5:30 every morning, make the kids breakfast, and get them to school by 7:30. Then I go to work for six hours, then take my son to therapy, and pick up my daughter from dance practice. We catch the nineteen bus to the two train, and ride it to the last stop. We’re normally home by seven so I have time to eat dinner before going to sleep at nine. I’m busting my hump for these kids. My parents were from the Dominican Republic. My dad only finished the third grade. He’d always tell me to finish school, but it never really went beyond words. He never helped me with my homework. He was always working and he just didn’t know any better. So I’m making sure that I’m involved with everything. I go to the open houses, the meetings, and all the school functions. I’m busting my hump so they won’t have to.”humansofny“I was raped by my cousin when I was seven. He was a teenager. We were sleeping in the same bed when it happened. I could have run away but I didn’t. Why didn’t I stop it? Does that mean I kind of liked it? Is that why I didn’t tell anyone? It got even more confusing when I grew up and realized I was gay.”humansofny“I was in a fraternity when I was in college. We’d always try to be funny and shoot each other down. And I never really stopped being that way. I’ve been sarcastic my whole life. I always had something witty to say. I didn’t care whose feelings got hurt as long as I got a good laugh. I didn’t care much about maintaining relationships. It was ‘take it or leave it.’ But I got lung cancer recently, and nobody came to visit me when I was in the hospital. That really got me thinking. I don’t take my relationships for granted anymore. I’m much more careful with my words now. I don’t want to upset anybody. I listen a lot more. I try to appreciate everyone who takes the time to speak to me.”humansofny“When you’re four you can do awesome tricks. You can do a tumble and a cartwheel. Actually I can’t do a cartwheel, but my sister can do that. She’s five years old and likes to play with me but I haven’t met her and I don’t know her name because she’s imaginary. She likes to fly. Her job is so save the day every time the bad guys try to steal the word. She is friends with Water Girl, and Fire Girl, and Wind Girl, and Shark Girl. Shark Girl has the power of sharks. She can save the world every single time. All she has to do is put out her hands and think really hard about sharks.”humansofny“I’m trying to not always require obedience even though it might be helpful in the moment. I was raised with obedience first and everything else second. We were supposed to always stand still. We weren’t to be seen or heard in the presence of adults. My mom was a single mother in a tough neighborhood, so in her mind, obedience meant safety. It’s what she felt she had to do. She only spoke to us in directions. And that caused me to grow up not really knowing what I wanted for myself. I’d even look to other people to tell me what I wanted. So I’m trying to raise her with a bit more independence. I want her to be creative and have freedom of movement. If that means running in circles, or jumping up and down while she’s eating her grapes, I’ll let her. Even if I’m tired.”humansofny“The hardest was when she left for college. We dropped her off a couple days early, so the campus was empty, and I have this very clear image of her walking alone across the quad. I stared at my daughter’s back while she literally walked into the next phase of her life. So many questions were running through my mind: ‘Did we prepare her enough? Is she happy? Will she feel comfortable enough to tell us if she’s not?’ Looking back, I wish I hadn’t fretted so much over the small stuff. When she was young, we were worried so much about whether she started on the soccer team, or if she got chosen for the front row at the dance competition, or if she was playing flute at the recital. We worried so much about that stuff because we were looking for any sort of validation that we were doing a good job. And in our desperation to be good parents we became our children. I wish I knew how fast all that stuff would fade away. And how little any of that would matter once she became an adult.”humansofnyHONY Stories is 50% off at Amazon for the next 48 hours, which is the cheapest it has been since Christmas. Moby was going to tell you about this promotion, but he got distracted by something across the street, which led to a total breakdown in discipline, and ended in absolute chaos. Link in bio.humansofny“My mom gave me up when I was three days old, and I was raised by my paternal grandparents. They were immigrants. They could only teach me what they knew. And they thought that children should be seen and not heard. In their world, you're not supposed to have feelings or opinions until you turn eighteen. So when I told them that my father was abusive, they didn’t want to hear it. I was expected to keep quiet. And apologies were expected to be forgiven. I left the house as soon as I turned sixteen. And I immediately entered an abusive relationship. I was looking for love and he seemed like love. He gave me what I never had. He made me feel needed. He loved when I cooked for him. He loved that I soothed him when he lost his temper. But after awhile, nothing could soothe him anymore.”humansofny“I’ve been writing for twenty-five years. I just finished my second novel. I had a really severe anxiety attack right before my deadline. I thought I was having a heart attack. I could barely breathe. I couldn’t calm down. Part of it was just the pressure of the deadline. But another part of it was the pressure to do something great. I feel like I’ve always been ‘almost there.’ I think I’m still trying to prove I’m a professional. I’ve always been on the playing field, but every time I get up to bat, the game gets cancelled for rain. I'm hoping to finally break through. I don’t know what form that will take. Maybe a bestseller, or a great review, or an invitation to sit on a panel. When I read interviews with successful authors, most of them point at a specific event, and say: ‘After that happened, I never looked back.’ And that’s what I want. To never look back.”humansofny“I’ve always believed in heaven. But it was so hard to lean on that understanding after my father passed away. I was a Daddy’s girl. His death was an emotional clusterfuck. I could close my eyes and imagine he was somewhere else. But for the first time in my life, I couldn’t pinpoint his location on a map. And even though I’d taken an astronomy class in college, I couldn’t find him with a telescope. His absence was so much more real than I thought it would be. And it really shook my beliefs. I had to form a deeper understanding of what exactly ‘heaven’ means. And I’m still working on that. But I do still talk to him everyday. And I still believe that I’ll see him again.”humansofny“When I was six months old, I was dropped off at an orphanage in Northern China with a little note pinned on my shirt. It only had the name of my village. The orphanage named me Gaoanna, which translates to ‘Girl From High Mountains.’ My mother decided to adopt me after she received my picture in the mail. She was 45 at the time. She had recently gotten divorced. She’d never had children. So it’s just been the two of us my whole life. I remember one time in high school, we got in an argument and my mom got very emotional. She started crying and said: ‘We can’t fight. It’s just the two of us. We have to stick together.’ At that moment I realized how much I had changed my mom’s life. She’d known from the start, of course. But it was something I needed to learn.”humansofny“Mom turns 103 this August. I try to spend four afternoons a week with her. There are a lot of things she doesn’t remember. But she’s great with nursery rhymes and songs. So we come down here and sing the ones that she remembers.”humansofny“One night she asked me to tell her a bedtime story. And I started telling her this long story about Finnegan the Moose. Finnegan was a very dignified moose. But one day a crazy goose named Reginald came and sat on his head. Reginald was a very exciting goose. She was always making bold proclamations, and suggesting crazy adventures, and her tongue was always hanging out of her mouth. Finnegan would always do whatever Reginald suggested. And he’d pretend that he understood her even when she didn’t make sense. Because before Reginald landed on his head, Finnegan’s life was a little boring. It wasn’t a bad life. It was a normal moose life. He just hadn’t met his best friend yet. And he didn’t even know she was out there.”humansofny“I thought we were just going to hang out at his sister’s place today, but when I got there, Jim wasn’t there. But his sister gave me an envelope and told me that Jim was waiting for me at the place where we saw The Nutcracker. But when I got to the theater, only Jim’s parents were there. But they gave me another envelope and told me that Jim was waiting for me at our favorite coffee shop. But when I got to the shop, only MY parents were there. But they gave me another envelope and told me that Jim was waiting for me at the place where we first went row boating. And when I got here, Jim was here. And he gave me one last envelope. And I opened all four envelopes and it said: ‘Will,’ ‘You,’ ‘Marry,’ ‘Me!’”humansofny"I'm going to build a rocket ship out of a trash can and some wood and a bubble that never pops, and then I'm going to test it out to see if it goes somewhere, and if it goes somewhere, I'll go to outer space and see things that people never even saw before."humansofnyOver the past two weeks, 90,000 of you donated nearly $3.4 million to help fight pediatric cancer. That is a staggering amount of money. Thank you. For those of you who might not have been in a place to contribute financially, thank you so much for engaging with this difficult material. The support and solidarity you showed these families was just as valuable as the money itself. You are the most caring community of people on the Internet. That’s no exaggeration. It’s proven by the tone of every comment section. And it’s proven by the $8.5 million you’ve given to charity in the past 1.5 years. You are such a compassionate collection of people, and I can’t thank you enough for all that you’ve contributed to HONY. Lastly, thank you so much to Dr. O'Reilly and the Department of Pediatrics at Memorial Sloan Kettering for making this series possible. Special thanks to Nina Pickett and Rachel Corke, who paved every stone on my path.
I’ve got one last story to leave you with. Last night you raised over $1 million in honor of Max to research and cure DIPG—the brain tumor that killed him. Dr. Souweidane tells me that this money represents the “single greatest leap forward” in his personal crusade against DIPG. When I interviewed Julie a few days ago, we were sitting on a bench in Madison Square Park that had been dedicated to Max. The plaque listed all the things that Max loved, and one of those things was ‘millions.’ I asked Julie what that meant. ‘Max’s uncle Charley gave him one hundred dollars,’ she told me. ‘And Max kept saying that one day he’d have a million.’ So thank you, everyone, for giving Max his million.

I’ll be leaving the fundraiser up all day, for anyone who would still like to donate. Link in bio.humansofny(5/5) “I used to be a really happy person. I really was. I was the person who would walk outside and say: ‘Isn’t everything beautiful? Isn’t life wonderful? Aren’t we so lucky?’ I don’t have that sense of joy anymore. I remember the Mother’s Day before Max was diagnosed. It was four years ago. We were in this same park. On the lawn over there. It was beautiful. All three of us were there. Irene and I were in love. And Max was lying on my feet and pretending to fly in the air. And he was laughing so hard and I remember feeling so happy and full of life. It was the last moment that I truly felt joy.” -------------------------------------------------------
Today is the last day of our fundraiser to aid Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. Over 70,000 people have donated and with over $2.6 million has been raised so far. Max’s tumor is the same tumor that Dr. Souweidane is working on curing. (See previous story). In fact, Max was supposed to be part of Dr. Souweidane’s first clinical trial but he passed away too soon. I promised Julie that all money raised during the telling of Max’s story would be given to Dr. Souwedaine and his colleagues to aid in their DIPG research. The gift will be given in Max’s honor. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(4/5) “I think I have post traumatic stress. I have so many horrible flashbacks. Two weeks after Max was diagnosed, he asked me if I’d be his Mommy forever. I said, ‘Of course I will.’ And he asked: ‘Even when I’m ninety?’ And I told him ‘yes.’ What was I supposed to say? And there were all the times he talked to me about the future. We’d talk about college. I just couldn’t tell him. God I was such a coward. I should have told him. I just couldn’t do it. Even toward the end. The day before he lost consciousness, I read his favorite book to him. It’s called Runaway Bunny. And the little bunny keeps threatening to run away. And the Mama bunny keeps saying: ‘Wherever you go, I will find you.’ Oh God, it was such a horrible way to die. He couldn’t speak or move or swallow or see. He basically starved to death. And the whole last week I’m whispering in his ear: ‘Let go, let go. Please Max, let go.’ My seven-year-old son. I’m telling him to let go. I mean, fuck. That’s not supposed to happen! And the whole time I never told him he was dying. I was such a coward. But he knew. He knew without me telling him. Because a couple weeks before he lost his speech, he asked me: ‘Mommy, do they speak English where I’m going?’” --------------------------------------------------------Today is the last day of our fundraiser to aid Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. Over 65,000 people have donated and we’ve raised over $2.3 million so far. Max’s tumor is the same tumor that Dr. Souweidane is working on curing. (See previous story). In fact, Max was supposed to be part of Dr. Souweidane’s first clinical trial but he passed away too soon. I promised Julie that all money raised during the telling of Max’s story would be given to Dr. Souwedaine and his colleagues to aid in their DIPG research. The gift will be given in Max’s honor. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(3/5) "There was a tumor in his brain. The doctor told us that he knew what it was. He said it was called DIPG and that he hadn’t found anything that worked. He said it would eventually kill him. And I started screaming. And I asked how long. And he told us a year. He told us that ‘doing nothing’ was an acceptable choice. And he said, ‘This will be harder on you than it is on Max.’ And I remember looking at Max. And he was so beautiful. All he had was that crossed eye. Our life had been beautiful and now everything sucked. I didn’t know what to do. So we went to the Lego store. He was obsessed with Legos. That night he got so many Legos.” ----------------------------------------------
Today is the last day of our fundraiser to aid Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. Nearly 60,000 people have donated and we’ve raised over $2.2 million so far. Max’s tumor is the same tumor that Dr. Souweidane is working on curing. (See previous story). I promised Julie that all money raised during the telling of her story would be given to Dr. Souweidane and his colleagues to aid in the fight against DIPG. The gift will be given in Max’s honor. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(2/5) “One of Max’s eyes started crossing over when he turned six years old. But I wasn’t too worried. He’d been such a healthy kid. I thought maybe he was developing a bit of a lazy eye. But the doctor started getting really uncomfortable during our appointment. He scheduled an MRI for the next day, and he told me: ‘Let’s not be too worried. I’m going to sleep well tonight.’ It was such a weird thing to say. Right? I had been completely relaxed until he said that. We got the MRI early the next morning, and I went to work. The results came in a few hours later. They called me while I was walking down the street. I just collapsed on the sidewalk.” -------------------------------------------------
This is the last day of our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. We’ve raised over $2 million so far. Funding is scarce in pediatric cancer, and largely relies on private donations. So this money will have a giant impact. These donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. So even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(1/5) "Max had two mothers. We found a sperm donor and I gave birth to him through IVF. He was actually a twin. I decided to reduce the pregnancy because I was scared at the time. I didn't think I could handle twins. And that decision will haunt me for the rest of my life. Max was such a sweet child. I was a bit of a hard ass on him. I wanted to be sure that I gave him boundaries because I never had them growing up. But I think it brought us closer together. Because he knew I’d always protect him. And he was so protective of me too. But in such a sweet way. He’d hold my face in his hands. God he was so sweet. Just such a nice guy. So funny. He loved to laugh. His bedroom was close to ours and we used to hear him in there late at night, laughing by himself." -------------------------------------------------
This is the final day of our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. We’ve raised over $2 million so far. Funding is scarce in pediatric cancer and largely relies on private donations. So these donations will have a giant impact. They will fund the science that saves the lives of children. So even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(4/4) “My childhood was building things: model rockets, model cars, train sets, airplanes. And I didn’t just build them. I focused on every detail. I hand painted every letter on the train. I sanded the wooden ribs of the airplane until everything was so precise and fit. And it felt so good when that work was finished and appreciated. It was the same drive that brought me into neurosurgery. I loved fixing things. And I had always been successful. To get to be a neurosurgeon, I had to succeed on so many levels. I’d become accustomed to success. But I finally found something I couldn’t fix. All my DIPG patients were dying. It was failure beyond failure. Kids were dying because I’m not good enough at this. And they don’t deserve it. And neither do the parents. It’s so hard to face these parents. They’ve envisioned everything that’s going to happen to their child from the day they were born: the first girlfriend, the first job, the first homerun, the first time tasting meatballs, it’s infinite. And they come into my office and, ‘Kaboom.’ All of it disappears. It’s horrible. Seeing their faces. It’s beyond abominable. I just can’t take it. I’ve got to stop these kids from dying.” -------------------------------------------------------Help us fund Dr. Souwedaine's work. There are less than two days left in our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. This includes the research of Dr. Souwedaine. Over 50,000 people have donated and we’ve raised $1.9 million so so far. It would be amazing if we could reach $2,000,000 by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(3/4) “In May of 2012, I finally got approval to conduct a clinical trial. A family flew up from Florida with their child Caitlyn. I was so nervous. I’d written so many elegant papers. I’d conducted so many trials on mice. I’d done so many tests in the lab proving that this could work. But here I was looking at a human child. Am I really ready? The spotlight was unbelievable. If I kill this child, it will decimate me emotionally. And the institution’s reputation was on the line. Had I done enough? Had I prepared enough? All these things were running through my mind as Caitlyn’s mother signed the consent. But when she finished, she turned to me and said: ‘Whatever happens, thank you for trying.’ And I still get emotional when I think about that. Because she took so much weight off me. The operation was a success. This is Caitlyn a week later. She could walk! She could jump! She could touch her nose! She lived for a year after that, but then her cancer came back and killed her. It was so hard for me. I was so close to her family. But right now I’ve had about twenty successful trials. That’s twenty living children. One young woman has been alive for three years. Every passing day that those children are still alive is the greatest day of my life.” --------------------------------------------------------
We have two days left in our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. This includes the research of Dr. Souwedaine, whose story is being told this evening. Nearly 50,000 people have donated and $1.8 million has been raised so far. It would be amazing if we could reach $2,000,000 by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(2/4) “When I first started working on DIPG in 1990, I thought: ‘I’ll figure it out in two years.’ That was before I had gray hair. I had no money. My office was the size of a closet and I was buying my own rats. But I was so optimistic. I had no idea what was facing me. There were so many hurdles I didn’t see. Everything was new. I never had any experts I could call or articles I could read. I had to figure everything out on my own. From a surgeon’s viewpoint, the tumor is unforgiving. It infiltrates the brain stem. Everything your body feels or experiences passes through that stem. You can’t violate it with a knife. It’s futile to even think about. So I had to figure out how to insert a catheter through the brain, and inject chemotherapy directly into the tumor. There is zero room for error. These chemicals must only touch the tumor. If you miss the target by a couple millimeters, it can be fatal. Brain surgeons aren’t artists. There isn’t much room to be creative. The innovator in neurosurgery is under a great deal of pressure. We must invent without being too imaginative. If we stray too far from our ancestors, it could lead to death.” ----------------------------------------------------------We have two days left in our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. This includes the research of Dr. Souwedaine, whose story is being told this evening. Nearly 50,000 people have donated and $1.8 million has been raised so far. It would be amazing if we could reach $2,000,000 by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(1/4) “I’ve been on a mission for seventeen years. It’s my holy grail. I’m trying to cure a brain tumor called DIPG that kills 100 percent of the children who have it. It only affects 200 kids a year so it’s never gotten much attention. But if you saw a child die from DIPG, you’d understand why I care so much. It’s awful. It’s just awful. Parents come to me in droves asking me to help. They say: ‘This can’t happen. Please do something.’ But there’s nothing I can do. Their child will be dead in a year. It’s horrible. It’s been a very tough thing to care about. I didn’t get into neurosurgery to watch kids die. I chose this job to heal people. And DIPG has been seventeen years of watching kids die. It’s a very dark place to work. But if I can find a cure, so much of that pain will be paid back in a single instant. And on that day I will feel like there has been some justice.” ----------------------------------------------------------We have two days left in our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. This includes the research of Dr. Souwedaine, whose story is being told this evening. Over 47,000 people have donated and $1.7 million has been raised so far. It would be amazing if we could reach $2,000,000 by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny“I have two birthdays. My first birthday is May 19th, 1992. And my second birthday is December 28th, 2007. That’s the day that I got my bone marrow transplant and my new immune system was born. I was just like a baby again. I was so weak. I had no energy. I couldn’t do anything for myself. We celebrate that day every year. It’s not a huge party. I don’t get a big cake-- maybe just a cupcake with a candle. But my family gets together and we talk about all the good things that have happened to us in the previous year. I always say that I wouldn’t change a thing about my life. Even the cancer. Because my family is very close now. And sometimes I feel that we are this… because of that.” ----------------------------------------------------------We have two days left in our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Over 46,000 people have donated and $1.7 million has been raised so far. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny“Sebastian was diagnosed when he was twenty months old. He needed several rounds of chemo just to shrink the tumor to the size of an orange. He couldn’t eat for fifteen days because they didn’t want to feed the tumor. He was in so much pain. The lining of his stomach had burned away. Every time he woke up, I’d just rock him back to sleep. I never wanted him to be awake. I was hoping so hard that he was still young enough to forget everything. But the cancer kept coming back. And he grew old enough to realize he was sick. And that broke my heart. I was up with him one night after the cancer came back again. He’d already had six surgeries at this point and we were doing more chemotherapy. He was throwing up and had diarrhea. I felt so bad for him. And I was so tired and felt so guilty for neglecting my other children. And Sebastian said to me, ‘I’m so happy, Mommy.’ And I was so confused because I couldn’t understand how he could possibly be happy. Then he smiled, and said: ‘Because I love you so much.’” ----------------------------------------------------------We have two days left in our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. 44,000 people have donated and over $1.6 million has been raised so far. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(6/6) “If I was to write a book about this whole experience, it would be called The Town That Saved Grace. So many people rallied around my daughter. There are just so many good people out there. Every time you turn on the TV, it’s always people yelling and fighting. You forget how many good people there are. After Grace got diagnosed, people cooked dinner for us for months. The schools were so supportive. Everyone helped out: the swim team, the soccer team, the fire department, the church. Our church had a rosary for Grace one day and they couldn’t even fit everyone in the chapel. Absolute strangers would stop us in the supermarket and tell us they were praying for us. But the moment I’ll never forget is when we were driving in our car one day, and we pulled over to stop at a lemonade stand. And it was a lemonade stand for Grace.” -------------------------------------------------------Grace’s life was saved by an experimental antibody, which resulted from the efforts of a group of parents who raised $2,000,000 to fund research. We are currently holding our own fundraiser to help the team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. There are three days left. Over 35,000 people have donated so far and we have raised over $1.4 million. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio. Also, you can follow Gracie: @cookiescrumblershumansofny(5/6) “These are my beads of courage. You get a yellow bead for an overnight stay. A white bead is for chemo. A black bead is when you get pricked. And I have two special heart-shaped beads because my heart stopped twice. The first time my heart stopped was late at night. It started beating really fast, and my nurse got very scared, and suddenly ten doctors ran in. They pulled out a big bag of ice and put it on my chest. I was a little annoyed because Justin Bieber was performing at the VMA’s and I had to turn down the volume. The doctors said, ‘Grace have you ever been on a roller coaster? This medicine is going to make you feel like you’re going down a giant hill!’ And they started putting those shock paddles on me. And I heard them tell my mom they were going to stop my heart, and she took out her Valium and started chewing it so it would work faster. Then somebody screamed, ‘Everyone clear!’ And my Mom said: ‘Are you ready Grace? It’s just a roller coaster! Are you ready?’ And then they pushed the shot into my IV and it felt like the world stopped spinning. The machine was going ‘beep, beep, beep,’ but then it stopped. And then nothing. And then nothing. And it felt like a giant boulder was dropped on my chest. And then suddenly my heart started beating again. And I yelled: ‘That did not feel like a roller coaster!’” ------------------------------------------------------Grace’s life was saved by an experimental antibody, which resulted from the efforts of a group of parents who raised $2,000,000 to fund research. We are currently holding our own fundraiser to help the team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. There are three days left. Over 35,000 people have donated so far and we have raised over $1.4 million. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio. Also, you can follow Gracie: @cookiescrumblershumansofny(4/6) “I want to be a pediatric surgeon. Our friend Mark is a surgeon and he told me all about it. Being a pediatric surgeon will be hard because you never want to hurt kids. You just want to cuddle them and hold them. But saving them is most important so it’s something you have to do. Also blood doesn’t bother me like it bothers my brother—and he’s sixteen! One time he got blood work done and he was so scared that he curled his toes and his hands. It doesn’t bother me though. I even had my surgeon film my surgery for me because I wanted to see his techniques. When I asked him, he was like: ‘Nobody’s ever asked that before.’ And I said: ‘Please? We can use my brother’s GoPro.’” --------------------------------------------------------Grace’s life was saved by an experimental antibody that was funded by a group of parents who raised $2,000,000. We are currently holding our own fundraiser to help the team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. This money funds the science that saves the lives of children. There are three days left. Over 35,000 people have donated so far and we have raised over $1.3 million. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio. Also, you can follow Gracie: @cookiescrumblershumansofny(3/6) “I wasn’t going to give up. We tried taking Grace to another hospital but they told us the same thing: ‘There’s nothing we can do.’ But then we brought her to Sloan, and they told us: ‘We think there’s one more thing we can try.’ It was an experimental antibody called Humanized 3F8. It triggered Grace’s immune system to attack her cancer. It was so painful. It felt like she was getting a root canal over her entire body. After two rounds of treatment they did another scan. They wanted to see if there was any progress. The therapy was so painful that if it wasn’t working they wanted to stop. They called me in the office to give me the results. They told Grace to wait outside. I was so nervous. I could barely stand. When I walked in, nobody was saying anything at first. I thought: ‘Oh, God. They don’t want to tell me.’ Suddenly they said: ‘This is amazing. It’s never happened before.’ And they held up her scan and the cancer was gone. It had been everywhere: her pelvis, her skull, her bones, her arms. And now it was gone. All of us started crying.” -------------------------------------------------------- You may remember the post from a few days ago that told the story of The Band of Parents, who raised $2,000,000 to fund the development of an antibody. Humanized 3F8 was that antibody. Grace’s life was saved through their efforts. Right now we are holding our own fundraiser to help the team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. As you can see, this research saves lives. There are three days left. Over 33,000 people have donated so far and we are nearing $1.3 million. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio. Also, you can follow Gracie: @cookiescrumblershumansofny(2/6) “The radiation was so strong that I couldn’t sit next to her for two weeks. But Grace handled all her treatment so well. She named her new dog after the chemotherapy medicine. She’d walk through the lobby of the hospital, and she’d see kids who’d lost limbs, or had brain surgery, and she’d say: ‘I’m so lucky.’ But when the treatment was over, the doctors did another scan, and nothing had changed. They told me: ‘We’re no longer treating her to cure her.’ In the beginning they were so optimistic. They were telling me about all these options and all this stuff they were going to do. And now they were telling me to give up. And I’m looking at Grace. And she looks OK. She looks strong. She doesn’t look like the girl that I’m reading about in these medical charts. But they’re telling me to give up on her. They’re saying our goal is to keep her as comfortable as possible. Keep her comfortable? What do you mean? What are you trying to say? I’ll never forget that day. The doctor told me: ‘Let’s not worry about this afternoon’s appointment. Go home and have some fun.” ----------------------------------------------------- ----As we learn these stories, we are holding a fundraiser to help the team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. This money will be used to develop innovative treatments for rare pediatric cancers. This research saves lives. There are three days left. Over 31,000 people have donated so far and we’ve raised over $1.2 million. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(1/6) “She came back from soccer practice one day, limping and crying. And we knew something wasn’t right because Grace is tough. The doctors thought it was a pulled muscle at first but when they gave her the MRI, they could see stuff in her bones. They said it wasn’t leukemia, and we thought: ‘Thank God.’ But then they told us it was neuroblastoma. Stage four, high risk-- as if stage four wasn’t bad enough, they had to add an extra label. I was so scared during our first meeting that I put a statue of the Virgin Mary on the table. I thought maybe it would protect us. The doctors started going through the treatment plan. They told us percentages but I didn’t want to listen. They might know about cancer but they didn’t know Grace. So I didn’t want to hear it. Two weeks after the diagnosis, a friend wrote Grace a really nice letter of encouragement. It basically said: ‘I had stage two cancer, and everything turned out just fine!’ Grace folded up the letter, and asked me: ‘Mom, what stage do I have?’ And I told her: ‘Four.’ And she said, ‘How many stages are there?’ I wanted so bad to say: ‘One hundred and fifty.’ But I had to tell her the truth.” ----------------------------------------------------------As we learn these stories, we are holding a fundraiser to help the team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. This money will be used to develop innovative treatments for rare pediatric cancers. This research saves lives. There are three days left. Over 31,000 people have donated so far and we’ve raised over $1.2 million. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny“In the movies, scientists are portrayed as having a ‘eureka moment’—that singular moment in time when their faces change and they find the answer. In practice, research is a lot of persistence and teamwork. So it’s hard to say what a ‘eureka moment’ would look like in my research. Maybe it’s when I’m finally able to look patients and parents in the eye and say with confidence that we have what’s needed to cure them. All oncologists hunger for that knowledge. We want to take this impenetrable mass of data and finally reach the point where we never have to give another 'percent chance of survival.' Because that chance will always be one hundred percent." ------------------------------------------------------There are four days left in our fundraiser to help the doctors, nurses, and researchers at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. Over 30,000 people have donated so far and we’ve raised nearly $1.2 million. To put that in context—the money we’ve raised is enough to run Dr. Kentsis’s lab for an entire year. Your donations will have an impact, and could very well save lives. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny“The fundamental question of cancer biology has always been the same: ‘What makes a cancer cell a cancer cell?’ And we are closer to answering this than ever before. It’s a historic time. It’s the molecular era. This machine takes cells from tumors and breaks them into individual molecules. Millions of molecules per second pass through this machine, and we analyze all of them. We’re looking for the molecule that does not belong. If we find it, we can target it. And if we can target it, we can eliminate the cancer cells that depend on it. Cancer biologists have already discovered this molecule in certain types of blood cancer. This is not an overstatement. Today, with certain groups of patients, we can achieve cure.” ------------------------------------------------------ There are four days left in our fundraiser to help the doctors, nurses, and researchers at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. Over 30,000 people have donated so far and we’ve raised nearly $1.2 million. To put that in context—the money we’ve raised is enough to run Dr. Kentsis’s lab for an entire year. Your donations will have an impact, and could very well save lives. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny“It was one of the most despicable things I’ve seen in my career. It was ten years ago. There were about twenty families being treated here whose kids had Neuroblastoma. The survival rate was about ten percent. One of our doctors developed an antibody that he thought was promising. But he’d run out of money. So he called a town hall meeting of sorts. He brought all the families together and told them he needed two million dollars. And they told him: ‘We’ll find it.’ We refer to them now as the Band of Parents. These people were desperate. Many of them were broke. And this burden was being placed on them. It made me sick. But they went back to their communities. They baked cookies, and organized bike rides, and held fundraisers named after their children. And they raised the money. All two million. And it worked. Dr. Cheung’s antibody worked. Today the survival rate is sixty percent. But it was so sad. Because deep in their hearts those parents knew the antibody would not be ready in time to save their child. But they raised the money anyway.” --------------------------------------------------------Small amounts of money can have outsized impact in the world of pediatric cancer. Because these cancers are so rare, only four percent of government funding for cancer research goes to pediatrics. Therefore research relies heavily on private donations. Almost 30,000 people have donated so far to our fundraiser, and we’ve raised nearly 1.1 million to help Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center develop treatments for these cancers. As you can see, this amount of money can and does save lives. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny“Nobody ever tells each other the truth around here. It’s not to say that anyone is lying. Everyone just hides what they're really thinking. Mommy doesn’t want the child to feel sad. The child doesn’t want Mommy to feel sad. So everyone wears a mask. Everyone is doing ‘just fine.’ Everyone is ‘feeling OK.’ Everyone is so excited about going to see the ball game or spending a day in the park. I think the only people who really see the truth around here are the night nurses. In the middle of the night, nobody is depending on you to be someone else. There’s no more distractions or visitors or physicians. It’s just you, your medication, and time.” --------------------------------------------------------Just a few days left in our fundraiser to help Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center fight pediatric cancer. Over 28,000 people have donated so far and we’ve raised over $1,000,000. This money will be used to help develop innovative treatments for the rare childhood cancers that MSK helps fight. If you’ve been inspired by the stories of these patients, doctors, and nurses, please consider being counted in our effort to support them. Link in bio.humansofny“Her tumor was the size of a grapefruit. I don’t even know how it fit in her body. There’s no protocol for neuroblastoma. Everything is experimental. Different doctors have different opinions, so I have to make choices that you couldn’t imagine. Horrible choices. She’s had several rounds of chemo, antibody therapy, a stem cell transplant, and a twelve-hour surgery. The surgery was risky. One doctor tried to talk me out of it. I don’t understand this stuff but I still have to make these decisions. I think I’ve made all the right choices so far but the next one could be the wrong one. It’s so stressful. You know that feeling you have when you’re waiting for a call back from a job interview? That’s all the time for me. Except it’s not a job. It’s my kid’s life. I push all the emotional stuff to the back burner. I feel like the only way to keep moving is to stay numb. My only therapy is talking to the other moms here. We’re all going through the same thing. So that helps. But then again we lose a lot of our friends here. Her best friend’s cancer just spread to the brain. So that’s scary as shit.” --------------------------------------------------------Just a few days left in our fundraiser to help Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center fight pediatric cancer. Nearly 28,000 people have donated so far and we’ve raised over $1,000,000. This money will be used to help develop innovative treatments for the rare childhood cancers that MSK helps fight. If you’ve been inspired by the stories of these patients, doctors, and nurses, please consider being counted in our effort to support them. Link in bio.humansofny“Cancer engenders immediate fear. I think that deep in our soul, we don’t want to admit to the possibility that we might have it too. So when someone else gets cancer, we turn that person into an ‘other.’ If that person is ‘other than us,’ then maybe it won’t happen to us. For the past thirty years, I’ve done everything I can to keep children from feeling like an ‘other.’ Yes, this child has cancer. But this child is a normal kid. Alongside their illness, they are dealing with demons that the average adult has never faced. So not only must we heal them, we must also never let them feel ‘less good’ or ‘less worthwhile.’ Because if we disrupt their ability to relate to the world, then the cancer will define the rest of their life.” ----------------------------------------------------------Over the past eight days, we’ve raised over one million dollars to help Dr. O’Reilly and his team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center fight pediatric cancer. While most of the money will go to crucial research, one-third of the funds will go toward providing the psychosocial services that treat the ‘whole child.’ If you haven’t already, please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny“Twelve thousand kids per year get cancer in the United States. But the extraordinary thing isn’t that cancer happens. The extraordinary thing is that cancer doesn’t happen more often. Every human life begins with a single cell. Trillions of cells will form from that single cell. During this process, the DNA will rearrange itself hundreds of times to form all different types of cells: muscle, nerve, bone, blood, connective tissue. If you look at these cells under a microscope, each one has special properties. They all have codes that tell them exactly what to do and exactly when to stop doing it. The complexity of this is extraordinary. There are numerous fail-safes at every level to prevent mistakes. How is it possible that it ever works correctly? There are trillions of chances for something to go wrong. God, it’s unbelievable. The longer I study cancer, the more I’m in awe of the healthy child.” --------------------------------------------------------- Thanks to the 27,000 people who donated, last night we reached our goal of $1,000,000 to help Dr. O’Reilly and his team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center fight pediatric cancer. (A special thanks to the anonymous $14,000 donor who put us over the top in dramatic fashion.) We’ll try to add to that total in the remaining few days to make the largest impact possible. Thanks to everyone who’s engaged with this series. I have received so many notes from the patients and doctors interviewed. They have been so moved and encouraged by your comments. I assure you that every single comment is being read. I know that many of the patient stories have been extremely difficult to read, so thanks to all of you who have helped bear the weight of these stories. Cancer is extremely isolating and there is great value in every type of human connection. So thank you. Anyone still wishing to contribute to our fundraiser, link in bio.humansofny“We’re doing fine. We see a lot of psychologists in the hospital. They ask a lot of questions. They’re looking for problems. They think we’re hiding something from them. It’s a nice conversation but there’s nothing to find. Maybe it’s because we’re simple minds and we don’t think too deeply about things. We’re treating this like a normal event. A lot of people have it worse than us. We have access to the best care in the world. Our only problem is boredom. We should be thankful. The cancer is gone now. If it comes back, it comes back. But why worry about something that hasn’t happened yet?”humansofny“It’s been twelve hours a day, six days a week, for the last thirty years. My goal during all these years was to help all I could help. I’ve given 200%. I’ve given transplants to over 1200 kids. I’ve published as many papers as I could. I’ve contributed to some major achievements here. I feel happy because I've done my part. But now I’m almost finished. It’s time for the young people out there to finish the job. They’re going to be smarter than us. They’ll know more. They’re going to unzip the DNA and find the typo. They’re going to invent targeted therapies so we don’t have to use all this radiation. Me? My goal for the remainder of my life is to not be useful. I want to learn Portuguese. I want to play the guitar. I want to eat, drink, and enjoy the company of my friends. I recognize these are selfish things. But at some point we must treat ourselves as well.” ---------------------------------------------- ----------We’re 95% of the way toward our goal of $1,000,000 to help the team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. Our donations will go toward the development of specialized treatments to give kids with rare tumors a chance at life. Thanks so much to everyone who’s donated so far. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider contributing. Link in bio.humansofny“The caretakers play a crucial role, but there’s no way to predict how a parent will react to this. Sometimes they are the best helpers. They come in wanting to win. They say, ‘We’re going to beat the crap out of this thing.’ And that positive attitude flows down to the child. ‘I can’ becomes ‘we can.’ But sometimes the parents give up before treatment begins. You see it in their eyes. The battle is lost before we start. They say ‘I can’t,’ and that becomes ‘we can’t.’ The child becomes defeated and that hurts us. Because the child is the captain of this team and we need our captain to be strong. But I’m not judging these parents. They are experiencing the toughest thing a human can go through. On a scale of zero to death, this experience is right next to death. So it’s not fair to judge a person’s response. And there’s very little we can do about it. It’s almost impossible to change someone’s attitude. Because there’s never one reason that a person feels defeated. There are twenty or thirty reasons. People bring their entire lives with them into this hospital. We can provide encouragement. We can say, ‘Things will get better soon.’ But we can’t change someone’s entire life.” ---------------------------------------------------- ---We’re almost 90% of the way toward our goal of $1,000,000 to help the team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. MSK handles some of the toughest cases of childhood cancer, and our donations will go toward the development of specialized treatments to give these kids a chance. Thanks so much to everyone who’s donated so far. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider contributing. Link in bio.humansofny(7/7) “I’ve thought about what I would say if I could go back in time, and talk to myself before I got cancer. I’d say get ready to not be who you are right now. And get ready to deal with a lot of disappointments and pain. And just keep strong. And never give up. And don’t lock yourself in your room if you get sad or angry. Because nobody can help you if you’re in your room and the problem will get worse. And stop fighting with your brothers and sisters. Because you’re really going to need them soon and they are going to help you so much. And keep watching sports. Because those are really going to cheer you up.” ----------------------------------------------------------You can follow our man Avi here: @_super_avi. We’re just $200,000 away from our goal of $1,000,000 to help the team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. @sloankettering helped save Avi’s life along with thousands of other children, and we’re trying to help empower them to save even more. We’re almost there. Please help push us over the top. Link in bio.humansofny(6/7) “Whenever I saw my parents sad, it always made me a little more nervous. Like when I asked my mom how long it would be until I could eat again. And I said: ‘Ten years?’ And she shook her head and said, ‘Not that long.’ Then I said, ‘Five years?’ And she started crying. I do feel sorry for them. They are the best parents in the world and it’s very hard for them. You know, me not being quite who I used to be. I don’t have my full voice back. I haven’t done much physical activity in the last two years. They were always very proud of me. I think they’re still proud of me now but for different reasons. A lot of adults tell me that I’m more mature than a lot of eighteen year olds. Because I know that life isn’t just happy times, and now I know how to handle it.” ----------------------------------------------------
You can follow our man Avi here: @_super_avi. As we learn these stories, we’re trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at @sloankettering in their fight against pediatric cancer. They’ve helped save Avi’s life along with thousands of other children, and we’re trying to help empower them to save even more. We’re almost at our goal. Thanks to the 20,000 people who have donated so far. If a few thousand more people donate, we’ll get there. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider being counted. Link in bio.humansofny(5/7) “This is our last day of treatment.” -----------------------------------------------------------As we learn these stories, we are trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. They’ve helped save Avi’s life along with thousands of other children, and we’re to help empower them to save even more. We’re almost at our goal. Thanks to the 20,000 people who have donated so far. If you haven’t already, please consider being counted. Link in bio.humansofny(4/7) “Mark is such a good man. He’s the most dedicated father and husband you can imagine. He never spends money on himself. He never thinks of himself. He only cares about what the family needs. He helped start an organization that raises money for widows. He worked so hard on it. He went from synagogue to synagogue, asking for money. Yet he still thinks that all of this is his fault. He thinks that I’m pretty much perfect, and Avi is pretty much perfect, so it must be his fault. He couldn’t sleep for months after the diagnosis. He would be up for all hours. He spoke to so many rabbis and mental health professionals. He gave away all his possessions. He’d always tell me: ‘I know I’ve done something wrong. We’re being punished for something I did. And I don’t know what it is. But I’m so, so sorry.’"humansofny(3/7) “I can’t tell you why this happened to my son. He was so healthy. He was at the top of his class. He was a great athlete. I used to watch him play sports and think: ‘I can’t believe this is my son!’ And he was so nice to the other children. Other parents would send us letters and gifts because Avi was so kind. He’s just so good. But they all are. You look around this place, and you don’t see any serial killers. These are all good people. These are not the people screaming at their kids in Target. One day during chemo, when his hair started to fall out, Avi turned to me and said: ‘I think I know why this is happening. I made fun of somebody at school one time.’ And that just broke my heart. I can’t describe what it felt like to watch him suffer. It was torture. I used to lay with him in bed at night and wish so bad that it could be me instead. I’d do anything to switch places with him. One night when he was really hurting, he told me: ‘You can’t understand what I’m going through, Dad.’ And I told him, ‘Trust me Avi. I can.’”humansofny(2/7) “They finally got Avi breathing through a tube. The anesthesiologist cried when she saw him alive again. She said it was the scariest moment of her career. That night we parked our car in a 24-hour garage. We didn’t move it for five weeks. We slept head-to-toe on the bench in his room. I stared at those monitors non-stop. They told us Avi had Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. The tumor was too big to remove so he began 25 months of chemo. Everything went wrong. Complication after complication. The ‘worst case scenario’ happened so many times that we began to expect it. He had over thirty surgeries. They completely removed his esophagus. He couldn’t eat for nineteen months. And he couldn’t talk for seven months-- not a whisper.”humansofny(1/7) “This was the bench we sat on the night that Avi had his biopsy. He had been making weird breathing sounds. The pediatrician sent us here because she saw something on his X-ray. Avi was eleven at the time. I didn’t want him to feel scared so I told him it was just a silly little test, and we’d be going home soon. I walked with my back against the wall to hide all the signs that said ‘cancer.’ They took Avi in the back and we waited on this bench for a long time. It was Friday night and the place was empty. It started getting late. It was taking too long. When the doctors finally came back they looked very scared. The doctor told us, ‘We’re having a difficult time keeping his airway open.’ I was so confused. This was just supposed to be a test. I asked him: ‘What do you mean?’ He said: ‘Avi could die.’ He kept repeating it: ‘Avi could die.’ Then he said: ‘It’s time to pray.’”humansofny“The absolute best thing in the world that can happen to me is telling a parent that their child’s tumor is benign. I live for those moments. And the worst thing that can happen to me is telling a parent that I’ve lost their kid. It’s only happened to me five times in thirty years. And I’ve wanted to kill myself every single time. Those parents trusted me with their child. It’s a sacred trust and the ultimate responsibility is always mine. I lose sleep for days. I second-guess every decision I made. And every time I lose a child, I tell the parents: ‘I’d rather be dead than her.’ And I mean it. But I go to church every single day. And I think that I’m going to see those kids in a better place. And I’m going to tell them that I’m sorry. And hopefully they’ll say, ‘Forget it. Come on in.’”
-----------------------------------------------------------
As we learn these stories, we are trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team @sloankettering in their fight against pediatric cancer. Thanks to the 17,000 people who have contributed so far. We're over 60% of the way there. Please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny“If there’s a chance then it’s worth a try. Even if nobody else wants to try, I will try. A lot of these kids have exhausted all their options. They may have had several surgeries elsewhere and it’s either hospice or one more try. My colleagues are amazing. So I know that if I can get this lump out, the child has a chance. I view each of these kids as my own. My team is amazing but I take 100% responsibility for the outcome and I don’t like to lose a drop of blood. So it’s a lot of stress. I have four grafts in my heart. My neck muscles are always tense. Some of these surgeries have probably taken years off my life. But tumors kill kids in very horrible ways. So if there’s a chance, I will try.” ------------------------------------------- ---------------As we learn these stories, we are trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at @sloankettering in their fight against pediatric cancer. Thanks to the 15,000 people who have contributed so far. We're almost 60% of the way there. Please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(3/3) “I think it might be easier for children because they don’t understand what can happen. They don’t know the ‘what if’s.’ She can handle how bad it is because she doesn’t know how bad it can get. All she worries about is playing. You can’t even tell when she’s feeling bad. She uses her IV pole as a skateboard. She skips through the hall and sings Dora. She climbs rocks and rides her bike. I always have to remind her that she’s sick. I’m always telling her that we can do more things once she feels better. And whenever her friend has a birthday party, she tells me: ‘I’m all better now!’” ----------------------------------------------------------As we learn these stories, we are trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at @sloankettering in their fight against pediatric cancer. Thanks to the 15,000 people who have contributed so far. We're more than halfway there. Please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(2/3) “I cried all weekend when she was diagnosed. But I made sure that I ducked into other rooms so nobody would see me. It’s a little tougher being a man because you feel like you’re supposed to be the rock. You want to hold yourself together so the family can lean on you. I’m used to always being in control. I own my own business. I’ve always been the ‘go-to-guy’ for everybody else. But I have no control over this. And that’s tough. I just have to watch my daughter suffer and there’s nothing I can do about it.”humansofny(1/3) “I feel like it’s draining us. Both emotionally and physically. Her immune system is so depleted that if she gets sick, it could kill her. So I’m afraid all the time. And that fear tends to keep me on the attack. I can be short tempered with my husband and my boys. I feel like if I scream, everyone will stay away from her and she’ll be OK. My husband and I have been fighting a lot. We’ll snap at each other over little things like the chores or giving her medicine. Before the diagnosis, we were always sure to talk things out before bed. But now we’re both so stressed that we hold stuff in. He doesn’t know how I’ll react. And I don’t know how he’ll react. So we just choose not to discuss our problems. This Saturday we went on our first date since the diagnosis. It was only two hours at an Italian restaurant, but it was nice to finally talk. We acknowledged that we’ve been on edge. And we apologized to each other.”humansofny“Some of my colleagues tell me they can’t imagine working in pediatrics. Millions of years of evolution have conditioned us to respond to the cries of a child. We can’t bear to see a child in pain. And once we have children of our own, it makes the work even more difficult. We all handle it differently, but everyone cries at some point. Not in front of the patient, but everyone cries. Every few months we have a ceremony where we mourn all the children who have passed away. We have a slideshow. We make cards. We talk about them and remember them together. We acknowledge that we all feel the loss. And even though our grief is not as significant as the family’s, it’s not trivial either. And we must take time to acknowledge that. Or all of us will burn out.”humansofny(2/2) “What did I do? It was certainly nothing she did. She’s just a child. It feels like we’re being punished for something I did. But I’m nice to people. I’ve never cheated on my husband. I’m nice to my parents. I feel so guilty. She was stage four when they discovered it. I should have known sooner. I should have listened to her complaints more. I should have said: ‘Maybe it’s not a pulled muscle. Let’s go to the doctor right this moment.’ Only eighty kids per year get this cancer. When she first got diagnosed it hurt me to look at her friends. They had their long hair, and they were driving their cars, and going to prom, and having boyfriends. They’re great kids but I couldn’t look at them without wondering: ‘Why? Why do they get to have a future?’ There’s a 23% survival rate. I try not to fixate on that number because I get so sad and I don’t want to go there. So I live as an actress. I’m playing the role of a happy person, but all I feel like is lying in bed and crying. The mom inside that hospital room helps her plan for her future. The mom inside that room believes her when she tells me that she’s not going anywhere. But the mom out here doesn’t know what to believe.”
---------------------------------------------
As we learn these stories, we are trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at @sloankettering in their fight against pediatric cancer. Thanks to the 11,000 people who have contributed so far. We're over 40% of the way there. Please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(1/2) “I got diagnosed last January. A mass behind my spine, two masses in my lungs, spots all over my lymph nodes and bone marrow. The guy who gave me the CT scan threw up afterward. The doctor said they could guarantee three years. I was like: ‘Three years. Holy shit.’ My biggest worry is that I’m going to die and not do all the things I wanted to do. The funny thing is—I didn’t even realize how many things I wanted to do until I got diagnosed. Simple things like meeting a guy, getting married, getting a job, having my own apartment, and even picking out my own furniture. Those never seemed too interesting to me. They just seemed like adult things that were guaranteed to happen. Now I want to do them so bad. Because I want to know what they feel like.” -----------------------------------------------------------As we learn these stories, we are trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at @sloankettering in their fight against pediatric cancer. Thanks to the 11,000 people who have contributed so far. We're almost almost 40% there. Please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny“I got cancer in the summer when the pools were opening. And I really wanted to go swimming but I couldn’t leave the hospital. I begged her not to go swimming without me. And she didn’t because I couldn’t.” --------------------------------------------------------- As we learn the stories of doctors, nurses, and patients at @sloankettering , we are raising money to research and cure the rare pediatric cancers they are battling against. So far over 10,000 people have donated and we’ve raised $350,000. If only one percent of the people following this page were to make a donation, the amount raised would be over six million dollars. Many children come to MSK when they are out of options, and new options must be invented. The study of rare cancers involves small and relentless teams of researchers. Life-saving breakthroughs are made on very tight budgets. So your donations will make a difference. They may save a life. Please consider being counted. Link in Bio.humansofny(2/2) “You have to have faith and keep working. Back in the 70’s and 80’s, all of us were hoping for just a single survivor of stage four neuroblastoma. It was a rare cancer and we just couldn’t cure it. But eventually we figured it out. Recently over five hundred people attended a party we threw for neuroblastoma survivors. So change does happen. It just happens slowly. I have a colleague who lost hope recently. He’s been working on a brain tumor called DIPG, and he’s had nothing but three decades of negative outcomes. Dozens and dozens of failed trials. We just couldn’t touch the tumor because it’s in the main center of the brain. But my colleague stayed optimistic. He kept cheering us on. But he finally lost hope. After three decades of losing kids, he asked to not see any more DIPG patients. Then guess what happened. We finally have a survivor on our hands. Our neurosurgeon Dr. Souweidane figured out how to insert a catheter directly into the tumor. And we now have a girl that is 3.5 years from diagnosis. It’s still early, but it’s promising. She plays tennis. She plays violin. And she is gorgeous.”humansofny(1/2) “Last week the Mets were down 3-0 in the seventh inning, and Céspedes tied the game with one swing. Well that doesn’t ever happen with cancer. Nothing is ever immediate. And the hardest part about being an oncologist is trying to be patient. My daughter is a huge Grey's Anatomy fan. She loves those emergency room stories because they provide an immediate fix. But with cancer, there’s never a simple answer. And at this hospital we see some of the most difficult, challenging cases. You want so much to give that toddler’s parent some sort of guarantee, but you can’t. There’s no guarantee that the treatment will work. And if it doesn't work, there’s no guarantee that a new treatment will be developed in time. All we can do is try. And wait.”humansofny(3/3) "I grew up around nature. I had a wonderful family and a great life and it was so easy to be a believer. Then over the course of a single weekend, I learned that my one-year-old son was blind, had a seizure disorder, and a brain tumor. I remember I went to a beach, and a storm was coming in, and I just sat on the edge of the ocean and I wailed. For an hour I screamed in the pouring rain. That was thirteen years ago, and there hasn’t been a moment of relaxation since then. We’ve researched everything. We’ve tried everything. Anything to keep the tumor from growing. And the longer we’ve gone on, the more we’ve tried, and the narrower the choices get. There is nothing I won’t do to save my child. There is not a doctor you can keep me from. I’ll drive across the country for a single conversation. But I live with such pain. It’s not rocket science. Every day could be the day that I lose my child. But I’m trying to look up. I’m trying to have gratitude. And I’m trying to keep my faith."humansofny(2/3) "Sterling is the sanest one in our family. He’s our leader. He gets to be himself. If we were ourselves, we’d be rather useless because all the time we feel like disintegrating. We call him the Love Bug. He is always loving and happy. Every morning he sings a song while we walk down the driveway. It goes: ‘Another new day, coming my way! I can’t wait to go to school today!’ I look at him and think, ‘What is my problem?’ Then I tell myself, ‘Just follow the leader.’"
----------------------------------------------------
As we learn the stories of doctors, nurses, and patients such as Sterling, we are raising money to research and cure the rare pediatric cancers they are battling against. So far over 8,500 people have donated and we’ve raised over $300,000. Thanks to all of you. Even if only one percent of the people following this page were to make a donation, that would amount to nearly 200,000 donations and over six million dollars. So please consider being counted. Many children come to @sloankettering when they are out of options, and new options must be invented. The study of rare cancers involves small and relentless teams of researchers. Life-saving breakthroughs are made on very tight budgets. So your donations will make a difference. They may save a life. Please consider being counted. Link in bio.humansofny(1/3) "We’ve been fighting this for thirteen years. Sterling has a brain tumor in the center of his brain where the optic nerves cross. It’s inoperable. Our lives center around keeping the tumor from growing. That’s what we do. We’re here today to pick up a new experimental medicine. Sterling’s had over one thousand seizures. I joke that this whole experience has made me an involuntary Buddhist. When you live in a world of one thousand seizures, you have no choice but to live in the present. You’re jolted out of your mind every few minutes. And you learn about compassion. Having a special needs child has opened me up to the compassion of other people. There are so many people who are willing to help. When we first discovered the tumor, I sent Sterling’s scans to every hospital. I can’t tell you how many doctors gave me their time and didn’t charge a thing. Zero billable hours. Can you believe it? It was like going snorkeling for the first time, and discovering a whole new world of color that I didn’t know existed."humansofny“The nurse is in that room day in and day out. You give a piece of yourself to that child. But intimacy has its dangers. You have to be able to set it aside. You can’t come in on your days off. You have to be able to go home at the end of the day and have a glass of wine, or go rock climbing, or visit with friends. If you can’t go home and rebuild, you’ll burn out. You won’t be able to handle the losses if you’re just surviving off the wins. Because the losses are severe. You were allowed into that child’s life at their most intimate time, and you were trusted. And that is a gift. And even in death, you learned something from that child that made you a better person and a better nurse.” -----------------------------------------------------------As we learn the stories of doctors, nurses, and patients at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, we are raising money to research and cure the rare pediatric cancers they are battling against. So far nearly 7,500 people have donated an average of $33, and we’ve raised $260,000. If only one percent of the people following this page were to make a donation, the amount raised would be over six million dollars. Many children come to MSK when they are out of options, and new options must be invented. The study of rare cancers involves small and relentless teams of researchers. Life-saving breakthroughs are made on very tight budgets. So your donations will make a difference. They may save a life. Please consider being counted. Link in bio.humansofny“A big part of a nurse’s job is translation. We have to turn medical language into common language. We explain the ‘why’s.’ Why they can’t eat. Why there is pain. Why their hair is falling out. You never know what those big medical words mean to a child, so we do everything we can to demystify them. If they play sports, we may describe their tumor as a baseball. And everyone knows that baseballs don’t belong in your belly. Ninety percent of them play video games, so sometimes the cancer is a monster. We’ve got to shoot the monster. We’ve got to bomb the monster. But we’re going to work together and get that monster. We’ll use any frame of reference that they understand: their favorite TV show, their favorite book, their favorite toy. And if we have an adolescent who’s a little bit angry, we’ll just shove our foot up the cancer’s ass.”humansofny“The MDs build the treatment plan. The nurse’s job is to get it done. We’re the ones who are always there, making sure every single moment of every single day is the best it can possibly be. What’s going to take away that nausea? What’s going to take away that pain? How can we convince the doctor to let this kid see some sunshine? We know when the kid has a play at school. We know which massage therapist they love and which member of the family is most likely to persuade them to take their medicine. These kids rely on certain nurses like they’re gold. A lot of time these kids won’t listen to the doctor. But they’ll listen to their nurse.”humansofny(6/6) "If your child has brain cancer, I can give you some advice. First I would say to you: Oh my gosh! Your child has brain cancer. I’m so sorry that happened to you. I’m sure you’re feeling very sad, but don’t be worried because my mom was sad too. I actually have five words for you: It’s the saddest thing ever. So you can be sad whenever you want. If your child is sad, something you can do is tell them to never give up. If they are getting a needle, you’ll probably feel them squeezing your hand really, really, really tight. Tell them: ‘Don’t worry. This is a one time thing.’ The hardest part will be seeing your child with a line to a machine that gives them weird medications that might hurt and make them sad. Then you can give your child a lot of hugs because that will make them less sad. And your child will say: ‘Don’t worry Mom, I love you and I’m going to make it through this.’ And then you can hug them even more." ---------------------------------------------- ----We are currently holding a fundraiser to help study and cure rare cancers like Gabe’s. So far we’ve raised $50,000 from 1400 donations. That’s a great start. If even one percent of the people who follow this page were to donate, that would be 175,000 donations and the results would be staggering. A relatively tiny amount of us can make a giant difference, so please consider being counted! Rare and specialized cancers like Gabe’s require innovation. There are numerous instances of dedicated researchers making life-saving breakthroughs at Memorial Sloan Kettering with small amounts of money. Please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(5/6) "My biggest challenge? Two words for you: third grade. It’s kind of like second grade but harder. I was a very special student in second grade because I had a brain tumor. A very rare one actually. I was the only one in the world with this type of brain tumor. Everyone who knew me was shocked! Their heads blew up! I’ve been through a lot of things this past year. But I can tell you, if you get brain cancer, try not to worry! It will be very hard and you will get lots of fevers but you have to be brave. You have to be brave like me because I’m very brave about this thing. And if you don’t know how to be brave, I can teach you. I know the surgery seems scary, but I have four words for you: you’ll be on anesthetics. When you wake up, your head will be wrapped like a mummy and your mom will take a picture and show you. When it’s time to get shots, do a countdown from thirty and tell yourself: ‘Calm down, calm down, calm down.’ Then whenever you’re ready, tell the nurse to go. And if you need more time, ask for more time!" ---------------------------------------------------------We are currently holding a fundraiser to help study and cure rare cancers like Gabe’s. Almost 1000 people have donated so far. I hope over the course of the series, more people will consider donating. Rare and specialized cancers like Gabe’s require innovation. There are numerous instances of dedicated researchers making life-saving breakthroughs with small amounts of money. We can make a difference. Link in bio.humansofny(4/6) "After the surgery, we thought it was over. We think it’s done. Gabriel is getting better and it’s like nothing happened. His teachers can’t believe it! We’re even planning on going to the beach. But the doctors tell us that they can’t identify the tumor. The surgery was in July. August passes. September passes. Now that the tumor was gone, we were anxious to start treating the cancer, but nobody knows where to start. Every hospital is saying something different. Then finally two hospitals gave the same opinion: Descmoplastic Small Round Blue Cell Tumor. Nobody had ever seen this tumor in the brain before. They told me not to read about it. They told me that every case was different and not to read about it. When you read about it, it’s very bad. Oh my God. This cancer always comes back. And when it comes back, it’s worse. ‘Less than three years,’ it says. Oh my God. What did I do? What did I expose him to? What did I feed him? The chemo is so painful for him. My family tried to talk me out of it. They told me that I’m killing my son with my own hands. But what can I do? There’s nothing I can do. I want to give blood. I want to give bone marrow. But all I can do is watch. It’s the worst show you can imagine, but you have to watch. You’re forced to watch." ----------------------------------------------------------As we learn these stories, we are holding a fundraiser to help Memorial Sloan Kettering’s Department of Pediatrics. Please donate to help develop innovative and life-saving treatments for cancers such as Gabe’s. Link in bio.humansofny(3/6) "The doctors gave us peace of mind. They seemed so sure of their profession. They were using all these medical terms and speaking to each other so calmly. They spoke about the tumor like it was a simple puzzle. We tried to explain the surgery to Gabe as if it was a cartoon. He loved cartoons. We told him that there was a black hole that was sucking all the good energy out of his brain. We told him that he was going to be cut a little bit, but we did not tell him how much. I told him that he may have difficulty speaking when he wakes up, but don’t worry, because we’re going to write to Mommy on a notepad. But I’m thinking inside that I’m never going to hear my son speak again. During the surgery, my husband and I just walked around aimlessly for hours and cried. Finally they called and told us they were finished. We went in to see Gabe and he’s speaking words. He’s speaking regular words. My husband is so excited that he’s taking a video. But I’m looking at Gabe and he’s in a fetal position on the table. And I remember thinking that the way he was lying there, he looked like he did when he was born. It was just a bigger version of baby Gabriel. He had been such a healthy, beautiful baby boy. And here he is again. And he’s not well." ----------------------------------------------------------As we learn these stories, we are holding a fundraiser to help Memorial Sloan Kettering’s Department of Pediatrics. Please donate to help develop innovative and life-saving treatments for cancers such as Gabe’s. Link in bio.humansofny(2/6) “I didn’t tell my husband right away. I just told him to come meet me at the park, and that’s where I told him. The whole time Gabe was playing nearby. My husband took it very hard. He started crying. He had a panic attack. Our lives had not been easy. It was very difficult for us in Albania. My husband grew up without a father. We decided to come to America alone as teenagers. Neither of us spoke any English. We had no family here. It was very lonely. We came from nothing. We worked very hard and we went to school at night and we taught ourselves English. My husband got a job as a steam worker and I got a job in marketing. We bought a beautiful, sunny one-bedroom apartment. We had recently paid off the mortgage. We could even afford to send Gabe to private school. It felt like we were evolving. We felt like we had finally made it past the hard times. Then the rug was pulled out from under us and everything crumbled. And I didn’t know what to pick up first. Do I comfort my son, who’s about to go through the worst journey of his life? Or my husband? Or myself?” ----------------------------------------------------------As we learn these stories, we are holding a fundraiser to help Memorial Sloan Kettering develop innovative treatments for cancers such as Gabe’s. A portion of the funds raised will also be used to provide psychosocial support for parents and siblings. Please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofny(1/6) "Gabe was a perfectly healthy boy. He’d reached all his milestones as a child. He talked early. He walked early. He never got sick except for colds. He did baseball and swimming and kickboxing. Then two years ago he began to have a ‘pins and needles’ feeling in his mouth. Then it grew numb and he had trouble talking. One day the teacher had him read out loud in class and he drooled all over the paper. So I raised a flag with the pediatrician. He thought it was just an allergy, but sent us to a neurologist just in case. The neurologist thought it was just a ‘tick’ and part of a growing phase. But he did an MRI just in case. When the results came in, he asked Gabe to wait outside the room. That’s when I became scared out of my mind. It was the worst possible news. The doctor said it was a tumor the size of a big olive. In the brain."humansofny“All doctors have those patients who sit on our shoulder. Their image is always with you. One kid will pop into your head every time you hit a wall-- when you encounter a disease that is so unrelenting that you’ve exhausted all therapies and you’re still not even close. One memory will keep you going. It’s a different kid for every doctor. It’s hard to know why they stick with us. I remember one patient that had red hair just like my son. And I remember one five-year-old girl who made me laugh, because when I asked her how she was doing, she told me: ‘I don’t know. You’re the doctor.’ And then there was the boy early in my career who was born without an immune system. He’d already lost two older siblings to the same disease. He lived the first two years of his life in an isolation room with no windows, and his entire exposure to the world was through a black-and-white TV. We gave him a bone marrow transplant, and suddenly his immune system came online. And we took him for a walk in the garden. This boy who had spent his entire life in a windowless room. And a sparrow landed on a bush, and he pointed at it, and said: ‘Bird.’ That moment will always be with me.” ---------------------------------------------------------Dr. O’Reilly is stepping down this year after thirty years as Chairman of the Department of Pediatrics at MSK. As we learn these stories, we are holding a fundraiser in his honor to fight pediatric cancer. Please consider donating. Link in bio.humansofnyOver the next couple of weeks, I’ll be posting stories gathered from the Pediatrics Department of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Obviously these are not going to be easy stories to read. These are war stories. The treatment of cancer can be nearly as violent as the condition itself, and even the doctors will frame their efforts in terms of warfare. But the fight against pediatric cancer is uniquely tragic because the battlefield is the body of a child. So these are definitely war stories. But as with every war, there are heroes. You’ll meet the amazing doctors, nurses, and researchers who have committed their lives to this fight. You’ll meet the moms and dads who refuse to crumble while living out their greatest fear. And most importantly, you’ll meet the reason that everyone is fighting, and the greatest warriors of all—the kids. So yes, these are war stories. But this is also the story of humanity’s bold response to the greatest injustice of nature. And as we learn these stories, we’ll be raising money to play our own small part in the war.humansofnyA quick update on the funds we raised last December to help the Syrian refugee families coming to America. With the help of The Compassion Collective, each family has been contacted through their resettlement agencies and have worked out an individualized plan to receive their share of the funds. We wanted to be sure that the money was given in a way that would not negate other benefits and assistance. Some families elected to receive the money right away, others in installments, and some asked that the money be held for future needs. Thanks so much to The Compassion Collective for doing all the organizational work on this—especially Liz Book who really spearheaded the effort.
If you haven’t heard of The Compassion Collective, it’s a group of super-talented authors such as Glennon Melton, Cheryl Strayed, Brene Brown, and Liz Gilbert. It was extremely generous of them to lend their organizational abilities to our fundraiser. Late last year, they also raised $1,000,000 in donations to support refugees, and they are gearing up for another campaign this Mother’s Day. If you are a fan of their literary work, I encourage you to follow along and help them in their charitable endeavors as well.humansofny“I started failing all my classes when I was twenty, dropped out of college, hitchhiked around a little bit, and ended up at a Buddhist monastery for six years. My relationship with my teacher was very worshipful at first. He taught me so much: how to meditate, how to wok, how to teach. He seemed to know everything. And he seemed to know more about me than I knew myself. So I completely depended upon him. Then he had a sex scandal. And when that happened, I didn’t know what to do. I couldn’t lean on him anymore. So I moved to the city and got my bachelor’s degree at City College. I’m glad for my time at the monastery. I’m a better person because of it, and it taught me discipline. But I don’t think I’ll ever be idolizing anyone again.”humansofny“We started dating shortly after she acquired a stalker—bad start, I know. So she had security with her 24/7. Our first date went great. It was the kind of night that was clearly going to end with a kiss. But I had to kiss her in front of the security guards. It was awkward. It was like our parents were watching. The next morning she knocked on my hotel room door. She was alone. She walked into the room, and said: ‘I can do better.’”humansofny“I grew up in India where a woman got married, settled down, and kept a house. I never thought I’d do anything different. I lived a very sheltered existence. I went to a British school, then a women’s college, and then I met my husband. I assumed that I’d be taken care of for the rest of my life. But shortly after we came to America, my husband slipped into a coma and lingered for another fifteen years. We had a small child at the time. I’d never worked before, except for a part-time job in the bookshop at the Met. I was a very quiet person. And suddenly I had to make all of the decisions. I had to get a full time job. It was empowering. I learned that I could be fearless, I could be angry, and I could fight. These were three things that I’d never had to do before. I was thinking recently, that if my husband had lived, he might not have liked who I’ve become.”humansofny“I just had a son. I imagined stress, no sleep, and total confusion over what to do. I thought I’d be so tired that I’d be unable to form sentences at work. And there have been instances of that. I’ve left the house a few times without my wallet or cell phone. I’ve been late to a few meetings. Recently I woke up on an empty train. But overall it’s been absolutely phenomenal and the most fun I’ve ever had. He’s incredibly happy all the time. He smiles all day. It’s insane. You should see him laugh. I almost peed my pants the first time he laughed. I am sleeping less. But I’m choosing to sleep less. I set my alarm for 5 AM so that I can spend an extra hour with him before I go to work.”humansofny“My partner has ruined my life. I’ve been with him for six years now. His mental illness has cost us everything. We had a three-bedroom townhouse in Pennsylvania. It wasn’t much, but it was something. We had two cars. I had a job working at a call center for the government. But then he became convinced that we were being poisoned by fracking, and we had to leave everything behind. At our next apartment, he kicked down the neighbor’s door because he thought someone was trying to get him. Then he made me drive him to Canada because he thought his mother was a famous actress. Now we’re homeless. I don’t sleep more than three hours a night. Any time you lay down your head, a security guard will come along and make you leave. I look awful. I can’t shave. I can’t even jack off. I know that sounds bad but I’m still human. I have needs. And I’m affection starved. He gives me no affection. I tried to kiss a straight friend of mine recently because I’m so affection starved. But the thing is—I’m all he has. I do everything for him. I get his food. I get his medicine. I know that I enable him. But if I leave him, I’m afraid he’ll kill himself.”humansofny“We met in church as teenagers. We were best friends at first. We’d complete each other’s sentences. We got married two weeks after she graduated from UCLA, and we never stopped moving after that. We had our first child while we were in law school. Then we both had to pass the bar. After that we had to find jobs, and we had a second kid. At some point we just got into survival mode. It didn’t feel like we were growing a relationship anymore. It just felt like we were picking up the pieces of decisions we had made. We kept telling ourselves that things would get better once life settled down. We’d say: ‘Let’s just get through law school. Or let’s just get through finals. Or let’s just get through this move.” We never communicated things that were bothering us. After thirteen years, we finally decided that the time was now. We wanted to finally be what we thought we were going to be while we were dating. Counseling was hard. There was a lot of unspoken anger and resentment to unpack. But we’re so glad we went because things are better now. And we feel like we’re growing again.”humansofny"I want to be a scientist so I can invent a potion to turn Pokemon cards into real Pokemons."humansofny“We’ve been friends for a long time. Both of us were married for forty years and both of our spouses passed away. A couple years after my husband died, he called me one night and invited me to a dance in New York. He wore a top hat and white tie, but he had a little too much to drink that night, and he fell into a snowdrift while he was walking me home. I couldn’t wait to see him again. The next morning I was sitting in my living room, reading the paper, and thinking: ‘Oh my God. Forty years of marriage. And here I am hoping that a man will call.”humansofny“I’m forty-eight now. I’ve been dating a woman for over two years. And I’m getting to the point where I probably need to cut her loose or commit. I’ve never been married. I’ve gotten close with two or three women. I actually got as close as City Hall one time. But I’ve always backed down. I guess I thought that I’d eventually meet a woman, and some sort of pathway would open up in my mind, and I’d know that she was the right one. But it hasn’t happened. I’ve never gotten to the point where the thought of marriage doesn’t freak me out. And here I am again. I just spent a wonderful day in the park with this woman. It was lovely. But now my mind jumps to the future. And I worry that there’s something I’m not seeing. I'm afraid that something will reveal itself once we’ve exchanged our vows, and suddenly my life will be worse than when I was alone.”humansofny“We started off as friends. Then one night we stayed up until 5 AM watching episodes of the Cosby Show spinoff where Denise goes to college. And we started joking about ‘Netflix and chill.’ And I was like, ‘So what kind of Netflix and chill’ are we having tonight?’ And she was like ‘I don’t know.’
Then I was like, ‘Want to make out?’”humansofnySusie passed away yesterday evening. She came into my life quite unexpectedly five years ago. I was photographing in Brooklyn one evening when I saw the coolest little dog sitting on a stoop. I sat down to pet her, and after a few minutes, her owner told me that he was unable to care for her anymore. He asked if I could take her. I was broke at the time. I was sleeping on a friend’s couch. And everyone that I asked told me that it was ‘not the right time’ for a dog. But I was so charmed by Susie, and the whole encounter seemed so fated, that I offered to take her.

It was one of the best decisions I ever made. Susie was twelve years old at the time and didn’t need much. I’d never had a dog before. It was a new experience. I was introduced for the first time to a dog’s unexplainable and unconditional love. After a few weeks, it seemed that Susie’s only concern in life was staying as close to me as possible. There was now a joyous reunion waiting for me at the end of every workday. And I learned that there are few greater blessings than a wildly happy dog greeting you at the door.
Over the last few years, my fiancé Erin developed her own relationship with Susie. As many of you know, Erin started a nonprofit called @susiesseniordogs, to place older dogs in loving homes. Older dogs have the hardest time getting adopted. Because there is such a demand for young dogs, so many senior dogs are either euthanized or forced to spend the remainder of their lives in a shelter. Over the past few years, @susiesseniordogs has placed several hundred senior dogs into homes. There is a warm and active community of people who follow the page. In fact, I think that half the people who come to my book signings are more excited to meet Erin than me.
So it’s been a tough few days, but Erin and I are both very thankful that Susie came into our lives. She was such a special friend. She was my introduction to the love of dogs. And she helped Erin discover her purpose in life. So in a way she’s going to stick around forever. I encourage everyone to follow @susiesseniordogs, and consider allowing an older dog to change your life as well.humansofny“I had cancer when I was fourteen and went through eight treatments of chemotherapy. The doctor told me then that I might have trouble getting pregnant. I had a miscarriage the first time we tried. We decided to wait a few months before trying again, because we were planning our wedding, and I didn’t want to be showing during the ceremony. But then we went to Rome for his birthday. And everything about him was annoying me. So he jokingly said, ‘I think you’re pregnant.’ We went and bought a pregnancy test but everything was in Italian, so we had no idea what it meant. So we actually learned that we were pregnant from Google Translate.”humansofny“I was having second thoughts about the marriage almost immediately. I was thinking about asking for an annulment, but then we got pregnant. So I stuck it out for twenty years. I did really well for myself during that time. I was making $100,000 per year as a lawyer. That was a lot of money in the sixties. We lived on the finest street in Charlotte. But I was still miserable. So the moment the kids were grown, I took off. I left my wife everything. I left her the house, the bank account, the Mercedes, everything. I didn’t even say goodbye. I just dictated a note to my secretary, called the Rolls Royce dealership, and told them to pick up the car at the airport. I flew to New York with nothing but $800, screaming: ‘Free at last, free at last, free at last!’”humansofny“I want to be an actor and produce plays. And because my parents let me live at home, I can afford to make little or no money while I participate in tiny, regional productions. My parents have been so supportive. Because I don’t have to pay rent, it frees me up to work part-time and spend extra time practicing. And I do spend a lot of time practicing. But I’m in my late twenties, and in many ways I still feel like a child. It’s hard to not associate adulthood with self-sufficiency. I have friends who are far enough along in their careers to get their own apartments and build their own lives. Recently I’ve been thinking a lot about finding a girlfriend. And I’m questioning why anyone would want to attach herself to me when I don’t have much to offer besides parents who are very supportive. I guess I’m worried that I’ve hit my peak. I’m afraid that I’ve reached the point where I’ll always be and I’ll never be able to support my parents like they’ve supported me.”humansofny“I moved three hours away from home. It doesn’t sound like much, but it was the hardest thing I’ve ever done. There were only 15,000 people in the town where I grew up. There was a village mentality. It’s the kind of place that nobody leaves. I knew everyone that I saw on the street. We’d all gone to the same school. We all worked nearby. We’d all go to the same pub at night. It felt very safe. When my job gave me the option of transferring closer to London, I thought that I had to take the chance. And I’d just broken up with my boyfriend so there really wasn’t anything holding me back. It’s been over two years now. I didn’t think I would make it. I assumed that I’d move back home. But I ended up building a new life. I’ve got my own place. New friends. A new boyfriend. My life isn’t better or worse. It’s just different. And that’s what I wanted.”humansofny“Honestly, I liked her more when she was drinking. She was a very high-functioning alcoholic. She was spontaneous. We’d do unplanned, crazy shit like drive to the ocean and look at whales. But once she got sober, all of that went away, and ritual became very important to her. You couldn’t talk to her for an hour without hearing a mantra from AA. And she got very Catholic. She started celebrating religious holidays and going to talks. I tried to participate. I even went on this trip to Spain where we followed the path of a saint. Everyone in the tour group seemed to be so inspired. We’d stop at these small churches and everyone would contemplate and pray. She was happy. She’d say things like: ‘This feels so real to me.’ But I didn’t feel it. It’s not that I felt disdain. I wanted to feel it. I just couldn’t. I knew then that our connection had been frayed. Because so much of travel is sharing an experience. And we weren’t sharing the same experience anymore.”humansofny“He’s much calmer than I am. I get offended a lot. I always imagine that I’m being insulted or demeaned in some way. I got an email last week and I didn’t like the tone, so it really set me off. I spent thirty minutes writing my response. It was a real tirade. He saw me typing furiously, and he just reached across the coffee table, placed his hand on mine, and said: ‘Let it go.’ And I deleted the whole thing. He’s just like Elsa.”humansofny"I got arrested in 2009 for protesting army recruitment. Then I got arrested in 2011 for protesting foreclosures after Hurricane Sandy. And I'm about to get arrested again, because on May 14th we're going to Albany to protest fossil fuels."humansofny“I was a cop for twenty-one years. It’s all I ever wanted to do. My father was a cop, and so were both my grandfathers. But I want him to do something else. I’d like him to be able to do a higher level, white-collar kind of thing. You just see so much as a cop. It’s not emotionally clean. So we’re trying to give him all the extra things: tutors, lessons, things like that. I had to hustle my whole life because I wasn’t a good student. And I want things to be different for him. If his grades start to dip, we try to show concern right away. It’s hard to know the right amount of pressure to put on him. That’s the hardest question. We discuss it every day. Luckily he's made it easy on us so far. Whenever we aim him in the right direction, he runs toward it.”humansofny“I’m graduating from Columbia with a Masters’ in Public Health. I want to stay in New York for another few years, but then I want to go back to Texas. My family is from a ‘drive-through’ town off Route 66. It’s tempting to stay here in New York because there are better opportunities. The Department of Health is very developed, and there’s so much funding from the government, and the services are so extensive. I feel like there’s so much I can learn here. But then I feel like I need to bring it back home. Texas is a big ole place. People are spread out. And so many of them don’t have access to the services they need.”humansofny“Thirty-five years ago I was a staff writer for the New Yorker, and I was working on a biography of Oliver Sacks. I had about fifteen notebooks full of interviews. We were meeting for dinner two or three nights per week. But at some point he asked if I could leave out the fact that he was gay. And I couldn’t do it. His sexuality tied him up in knots. And I thought those knots helped explain why he became such an amazing neurologist. So I agreed to stop writing, but we remained good friends. Shortly before he died last year, he called me and asked me to finish the book. So I’m trying to figure out where to begin. Thirty years ago I was going 100 mph in an aircraft carrier, and I was asked to stop on a dime. Now I’ve got to figure out how to start it back up.”humansofny“I’m a psychotherapist to some of the most successful people in Holland. My clients tend to come to me around the age of forty. They’ve accomplished so much, but they’re still driven by this fear that they’re not going to make it. And they start to ask themselves: ‘Is this going to be the rest of my life?’”humansofny“I drive an MTA bus. I don’t want to do that for the rest of my life. I’ve got to wake up at 4 am everyday. That’s not working for me. So I’m trying to get my music off the ground. I’ve been handing out these CDs all day. But it’s tough. I’ve only sold three so far. But one of the guys who bought a CD was from Algeria. So now I get to say that they play my music in Algeria."humansofny“I stayed in a bad relationship for three years. I was sharing a man with someone else. He wouldn’t answer his phone at certain times of the night. Or he was always working late. It was three years of letting him feel good at my expense. Three years of feeling ‘less than.’ I kept telling myself that I could be a better girlfriend. Or that I could fix it. Or that I should give it more time. I was down to 108 pounds from all the stress. I was constantly clenching my phone. I was always angry and arguing and serious. Finally one night the other woman got a hold of his phone, and she called me, and started asking me all these questions. And I decided that I couldn’t live like that anymore. I walked away. That was a year ago. My spirit feels so much lighter now. I’ve gained back twenty pounds. And I’m laughing again. During those years, it took a joke to make me laugh. Now I can laugh at anything.”humansofny“I’ve moved home to live with my parents while my dad battles esophageal cancer. I think my being home has helped my mom even more than my dad. She had stopped taking care of herself. There’s this feeling of helplessness when someone you love has cancer. Two weeks can pass between appointments, and there’s always this feeling that there’s something more you should be doing. For the past two years, Mom always put Dad first. She lost weight. She stopped doing things she cared about. So I’ve started cooking with her every night. That’s our time together. And I’m pushing her to start crafting again. And to go get her nails done every once in awhile. Last night I stayed home while she went to a Broadway show with her friends. And my dad’s happier too. He doesn’t care how Mom’s nails look, but he’s happier knowing that he’s not stopping her from doing things for herself.”humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“I’ve had serious problems with authority my entire life. The first person I tried to piss off was my mother. I got an Ivy League education and then became a street cop for six years. I’d always been a knee jerk liberal. I was one of those kids screaming ‘off the pigs’ at protest marches. And then I ended up joining the force. I think it should be mandatory for everyone. We all have to take turns being the hall monitor in elementary school. I think everyone should have to be a cop. It’s the ultimate social work. It’s the cop who has to step in when everything else has broken down. It’s where the rubber meets the road. It’s where conflict bubbles to the point of needing resolution, and somebody has to step in and protect the group welfare. Ninety percent of the job is family disputes. It’s walking into a room and keeping people from killing each other. Yet everyone hates cops. Everyone loves the fire department, and everyone hates cops. That’s why I think everyone should have to do it. Everyone should have to make an arrest. Everyone should have to feel the fear of trying to apprehend someone who doesn’t want to go to jail. Everyone should experience the ‘fight or flight’ response when flight isn’t an option. It breaks my heart to see all the hate toward cops. Are there hateful, racist cops? Sure. And they should be punished. But I’ve worked in just about every industry. And I didn’t find any more racism in the police department than I’ve found in boardrooms and retail stores. Before I joined the force, I used to think that all cops were The Man. Now I know that the cops are all of us. Just a bunch of human beings trying to figure out how to play the game. And I think everyone should have to do it.”humansofny“I work twelve hours a day as a patient care technician. I don’t treat myself like I should. But today’s my day off. So I’m trying to take care of myself. I got my nails done. I’m on the way to church. I’ve been singing along to my gospel and reggae. There’s no need to be in tune when you’re praising God. I’ve been singing and crying and laughing to myself. No crazy people bothered me on the train today. They think I’m one of them. I’m covered.”humansofny“We didn’t exactly try. We just stopped trying to prevent it and it happened. I’ve barely begun processing it. The tests came back positive, but it didn’t feel real. So I went to the doctor on Friday and it’s definitely real. The due date is December 5th. That feels really real. But other than that, nothing feels different. It’s like this unreal thing that’s happening to me. I am drinking decaf coffee right now. So that’s different.”humansofny“My daughter’s personality started changing when she turned seven. She began to gain weight. She acted out in school. She grew more defiant. My mother had died around that time, and they had been close, so I assumed that maybe it had something to do with that. She’d always tell me that she hated her stepfather. He was strict with her, but I thought that was a good thing. And he treated me so well. He was the fucking perfect husband. My daughter finally told me when she was twelve years old. We’d just moved to Long Island, and the two of us were sitting in a car outside our new house, and my husband was standing on the porch, and she pointed at him, and said: ‘You know he molests me.’ I felt so guilty. For five years I’d let it happen. He fucking knew how much I loved her. She was the whole reason I got sober. I’ve been trying to compensate my whole life. I could never discipline her after that. Now she has substance abuse problems so I’m raising my granddaughter myself. I’m still trying to compensate. We live in a little tiny studio but I try to do everything for her that I couldn’t do for my daughter. I go to every PTA meeting. Every activity. Girl Scouts, Disney, Universal. I’m picking her up from a camping trip right now.”humansofny“We met in our early twenties on a boat called the SS United States. We were sailing to France for study abroad programs. We met in the third class bar. I kept getting seasick and hadn’t slept. He had hair like Che Guevara. Curly lumps of it. I wish I had a picture. And he was wearing one of those little scarfs. He had to look more French than the French.”humansofny“I’m working on my second doctorate and doing clinical research in HIV. I’ve always wanted to be a tenure track professor, but I’ve been questioning that lately. I imagined that one day I’d get to a place where I can do the research that I want to do. But I’m seeing now that it’s more about doing the research that will get funded. I’m noticing a lot of disenchantment among my senior mentors. They don’t get to be as innovative as they’d like. Their primary task seems to be sustaining the institution. It’s not about doing the research that they think will make the most impact. It’s about going for the most likely money. It’s publish or perish. Fund or get fired. And education suffers as well. I love to teach, and I’ve always thought that teaching would be a big part of the process. But it’s not emphasized. Because teaching is paid for by tuition. It’s ‘money in, money out.’ But research funding comes from outside the school. It’s new money.”humansofny“I was miserable being a widow. But I knew it was going to be hard to meet someone new. There is so much space junk out there. And a lot of older men are looking for a younger woman. But I had great hopes. I did my visualizations. I pictured a nice, younger, good-looking man. Every morning I wrote down just what I wanted. Then I found him on one of those dating sites. I was a little worried at first because his profile said: ‘I’m back, ladies.’ I thought that maybe he was a womanizer. But he also quoted a psalm in his profile, and it was a good psalm, so I sent him a smile emoji. We started chatting and decided to meet at the Metropolitan Museum. I walked up the stairs and there he was! Suit! Tie! Overcoat! So much better than his picture! We spent six hours at the wine bar. They had to kick us out. We started seeing each other regularly. I felt like I was sixteen. Nothing could bother me for months. I couldn’t eat. I couldn’t sleep. Everything worked out just like I imagined. It will have been eight years together, this July.”humansofny“I never really felt like ‘one of the guys’ when I was growing up. I felt a lack of acceptance. I wasn’t the guy who was playing on the team, or going to IHOP after prom, or getting invited to birthday bashes. I’m not saying that I was a complete loner. I was relatable—just never enough to be included. I tried out for the football team in high school. I put everything into it. I got a trainer and everything. I was going to play, start, and become that person. But it never quite happened. And in a way, I still feel like I’m trying to get there. I just got into the grad school of my dreams. I interned at the White House last summer. I’m joining Teach For America. Part of me still feels that if I can elevate my image to a certain level, then people will be attracted to me. And I’m trying to get beyond that. I’ve been listening to this sermon lately called 'Getting To The Core.' And that’s exactly what I’m trying to do. I want to wake up knowing that it will be OK, no matter what I accomplish."humansofny“I emigrated from Liberia at the age of eighteen, and a lovely Jewish family took me in and helped fund my education. Their names were Anne and William Rothenberg. They had never even met me before. But they allowed me to live with them and introduced me to everyone as their daughter. They would never explain beyond that—it was always just ‘our daughter.’ It was so fun to see the confusion on people’s faces. They’ve both passed away. But a few years ago I started a scholarship fund for Liberian children, and I named it after them.”humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“We go to the races all the time. We don’t care about the horses. But it's the only place where you can get dressed up and drink champagne before noon.”humansofny“We met while he was renovating a house for me and my ex-husband. My ex-husband wasn’t interested in helping. He kept saying: ‘Go with Howard to pick out the windows.’ And: ‘Go with Howard to pick out the doors.’ Well, Howard and I were getting along so well, my ex-husband eventually said: ‘Just go with Howard.’"humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“I was a bit of a loner before I had her. I wasn’t a social person. I stayed away from people because I thought that everybody had a plot or a scheme. But she’s taught me how innocent people are when they start out. I mean, sometimes she’ll butter me up because she wants candy or a cookie. But then other times she’ll just hug me for no reason.”humansofny“I was a police officer in Baltimore for 21 years. I was addicted to heroin the entire time I was on the force. A lot of the guys had their addictions. I don’t think people understand the fear involved in the job. We were scared all the time. Baltimore was the murder capital of the world. It was tremendously stressful. I never used needles. Just powder. I was too scared of needles. My partner knew about it. One time he walked in the bathroom while I was using. He told me: ‘The moment I feel like you’re putting my life in danger, I’m turning you in.’ I did feel guilty when I was arresting drug offenders. But I always told myself: ‘You’re doing them a favor.’ One morning I looked in the mirror and saw death. I had no soul. So I made myself quit. I took two weeks leave, locked myself in a hotel room, and quit cold turkey. It was the darkest two weeks of my life. I can’t talk about it. But I never used again. My wife was never able to quit, though. She committed suicide six years ago. I woke up one morning and she’d been dead for seven hours, right next to me.”humansofny“My friend convinced me to go to church last weekend for the first time in five years. At the end of the service, the pastor told everyone to line up at the altar for a one-on-one prayer. I was the fifth in line. Everyone else got short prayers. Just a few seconds and they were done. But the pastor looked at me with a weird face. He announced that he had a vision of me getting locked up. Then he had the whole church form a circle, and he put his hand on my face like this, and he started shaking my head for fifteen minutes. He said he was trying to cancel my destiny. My friend was laughing and filming the whole thing. I’ve got to admit though—it’s got me nervous. I’m going back this week to see if I can get some more details.”humansofny"After I finally learned the ropes, they changed all the rules."humansofny“I graduated fifteen years ago with a degree in theater, but I wasn’t really doing anything with it. I was working at a theater box office. I was writing just enough so that I could tell people I was a ‘playwright.’ I’d tell my wife I was going to the coffee shop to write, but I’d end up just staring at the screen. I was about to give up completely. The city has a way of crowning young geniuses that makes you feel old. But my wife always had an unending belief that I had something to offer. It got to the point where even that belief was hard to hear because it made me feel like I was letting her down. Finally a friend of mine convinced me to do a small reading at his theater. He just kept bothering me about it. And when I finally agreed, so many other people stepped forward to help. I wasn’t living in the vacuum I thought I was. Once I lit the fire, people came and sat around it. So many people were willing to lend their craft to my idea. I’ve put on four plays in the past three years. They’ve all been very small productions. I’m much more frantic and stressed now. I lay awake at night wondering if I’m going to sell any tickets. But at least my life has urgency and purpose. My wife is proud of me. Though now I’m sure she wishes I wasn’t so absentminded. And that I’d remember to close the front door. And that our living room wasn’t always filled with props.”humansofny"I'm going to Matthew's birthday party. He loves to play trains with me."humansofny“I help maintain properties for absentee landlords. I think most people imagine landlords to be rich guys on Long Island. But most of my clients only own one or two properties. A lot of times they were inherited. Part of my job is helping to get squatters out of the buildings. There are professional squatters out there. You can’t even call them criminals. They know the laws and they’re working within the system. If you catch somebody breaking into your house-- that’s ‘breaking and entering.’ But if you happen to live out of state, and somebody breaks into your house and you don’t notice for six months, then that person becomes your tenant. It doesn’t matter if you gave them permission or not. If you want to evict them, you have to go through the legal system, which is very expensive. So it’s usually cheaper to pay the squatters off. The laws themselves aren’t bad. They were enacted to keep predatory landlords from evicting people without due process. But like all laws, there are people who have figured out how to abuse them. I have one squatter who has been living rent free in an old building for six years. He hasn’t paid a dime. He’s well dressed. He’s always very polite and professional when he answers the door. But we’re offering him $80,000 to leave and he’s asking for more.”humansofny“I got in trouble because I hit my classmate during our math exam because he was calling me names like he always does. The teacher said: ‘Why did you hit him?’ And I said: ‘Because he called me frog face.’ And then I had to sit alone for ten minutes. And then when I went home I got in trouble but Mommy gave me one more chance and next time if someone calls me frog face I’m just going to tell the teacher.”humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“I turned thirty-five recently. Everything is one big question for me right now. My dog died in January. I quit my job. I chopped off my hair. I got in a huge fight with my boyfriend last night and now I don’t know what’s going to happen. I feel like I’m about to fall apart. I’ve never been the type of girl who thought too much about kids, or dreamed about her wedding day, or thought about her wedding dress. But I’m thirty-five now. And I can’t help but wonder if it's ever going to happen. And when is it going to happen? And who is it going to happen with? I’ve been a bartender since the age of eighteen. I got used to it. It was safe. I couldn't mess up. There’s only one way to make a Manhattan. And the whole reason I quit my job was to pull the rug out from under myself. I wanted to use my cosmetology degree and pursue a career in hair styling. But I’ve interviewed with several salons now, and nothing has come of it. I’m really losing my self-confidence. I feel like everything is crashing down around me. I think I spent seventeen years stuck as a bartender because I was so afraid of feeling like this.”humansofny“My first wife Eileen passed away suddenly when she was 48. I was in a fog for a year or so. We didn’t have any children together. And I’m just not good at meeting people. I don’t have that personality. I’m not assertive enough. The only reason I’d been able to meet Eileen was because we worked at the same office. The funeral parlor held an event once a month, where you could go and just talk. That helped a little. But other than that I was pretty lonely. The only real hobby I had was Irish dancing. I tried to keep it up, but it reminded me too much of Eileen, so I quit. I discovered walking by accident. It was a fluke. Somebody left a brochure at the office for something called the Appalachian Mountain Club. It was run by volunteers. They’d organize walks in the Catskills. I started going on the weekends. It’s not like they were hugely difficult, but it felt great to accomplish something. And it was really conducive to meeting people. There’s not much else to do when you’re walking next to somebody. I loved it so much that I started travelling to other countries and doing walking tours. I met my current wife on a tour outside of Florence.”humansofnyAn Open Letter To Donald Trumphumansofny“I teach soccer to children under ten. Right now I’m sketching out some drills for the four year olds. We try to do things in a way where the kids feel like they’re making a difference. For one of the drills, we imagine that we’re building a snow village. For another drill we have to destroy a pirate ship. Then there’s a drill with ghost pirates. And another one with space pirates. Lots of pirates. We want to keep things politically correct because the parents watch the practice. Attacking pirates is something that everyone can get behind.”humansofny“I’m just working on universal peace and getting everybody to love each other. I’m an official brother man. I’m the one. Well, I’m one of the ones. There are all kinds of brother mans: black, white, Indian. A brother man is somebody who helps when people need help. A brother man will stand up and say: ‘That’s not right.’ A lot of women are brother mans too. But we don’t call them brother mans. We call them sisters.”humansofny“Achievement has always been a drug for me. Maybe it’s because I was a middle child and would do anything for recognition. I remember being a child and sitting at the piano for hours, with tennis balls under my hands, trying to get the right finger positions. Or trying to memorize more songs than my older sister. I got pregnant in college and gave birth to my son during my sophomore year. I was an unwed mother. I didn’t want to be a statistic. I wanted to achieve something. I wanted to prove that I could succeed and raise a great kid. I graduated on time. I was so proud of myself. I never accepted any help from anyone. I went into sales and I threw myself into work. Every time I reached a goal, it was like a drug. There was a sense of euphoria every time I hit my numbers. For the last few years, I’ve been working sixty to eighty hours a week. I led a sales team of thirty people. But my company got acquired and three weeks ago I got laid off. And I’m thinking that maybe it’s time to take a pause. For my whole life, it’s just been me and my child. And he turned out great. I’ve laid a strong foundation. I think it’s time to finally realize that things will be OK.”humansofny“I don’t enjoy observing people as much as I used to. Everyone acts like they’re on stage. People used to come to The Village sheepishly. Nobody was sure if they belonged. We didn’t know if we were artists. These days everyone walks around like they’re contributing something. There’s no angst anymore. There’s too much certainty. And that’s a shame. Because all the best art comes from people who feel like they don’t belong. Art is a way of proving your existence. When I was a young man, a person that I respected told me that I was an artist. It was one of the worst things that could have happened to me. I stopped walking into museums or galleries with a sense of awe. I walked in feeling like an ‘artist.’ My arms would be crossed. If I liked a piece, it was ‘good.’ If I didn’t like a piece, it was ‘bad.’ I didn't feel vulnerable anymore. I lost my humility. And that’s when growth stops.”humansofny“Right now I’m an assistant at a recording studio, which basically means cleaning the bathrooms, doing prep work, and sharpening pencils. I just have to prove that I’ll go out of my way to get things done. Then each week I get a few hours of practice time when the studio is empty. Next I’ll become an assistant engineer, and I’ll actually get to sit in on the recording sessions. The ultimate goal is to become a producer. Audio is a bit of a boys’ club. There were only three girls in my program at college, and there’s only one other woman at my studio now. I’m not sure why more women don’t pursue it. It’s perfect for me. I’m not much of a performer but I love music. So working in audio allows me to help create music without having to get on stage. And there's plenty of opportunity. Every Taylor Swift song has thirty or forty people behind it.”humansofny“I was working as a school safety officer when I met her. She was a teacher. But she kept working her way up. She became a principal. She went to work in the central office. She got her doctorate. Eventually she became the highest-ranking black woman in New York education. She was always taking that next step. I was working as a custodian when we got married. She was making five times more than me. It bothered me at first. It took some counseling to convince me that she hadn’t ‘settled’ for me. I’d been raised on the idea that the man was supposed to provide. But eventually I came around to the idea that money wasn’t the only way to provide. I could support her by doing chores, or taking the kids to school, or picking her up from the airport. Her work benefited all of us, so I could help provide by making her job easier. And eventually she inspired me to want more for myself. She’s the one that convinced me to go back to college.”humansofny“I didn’t go to college until I was fifty. I was working as a custodian and it just got tiresome. You could find me in the exact same place, at the exact same time, every single day. Clean the halls, clean the classrooms, clean the bathroom. I wasn’t feeling fulfilled. I started going to college classes on the nights and weekends. It was difficult because I was always tired. There’d be times when I didn’t want to do an assignment or I didn’t want to go to school because it was raining. But my professors kept telling me: ‘You’re not looking for a job anymore. You’re looking for a career.’ I graduated five years ago with my BA. Then 2.5 years later I got my Masters. Now I’m a parent coordinator at the same school where I worked as a custodian. I get to counsel parents about how their children can get the most out of school. My confidence has doubled. I used to be unsure about speaking up, because I didn’t feel qualified to offer my opinion, but now I’ll stop parents on the street-- just to make sure that their child is on the right track. Some people in my position get stressed when they’re given a heavy workload, like: ‘Why do I have to do this?’ I always think: ‘I get to do this.’ I’ve been working in the Department of Education for thirty years, so I could retire next year with benefits. But I don’t want to. Because I love my job. Every day is different.”humansofny“I went to every march and protest there was when I was young. I had a peace sign on my little yellow Volkswagen. I remember lying down on the Long Island Expressway in seventy-something to protest Kent State. Crazy, I know. But we thought that would end the war. I guess it did in a way. Once I was arrested at a protest in Washington. I don’t even remember exactly what we were protesting. But there were so many of us that they herded us into RFK stadium. I remember those crowds in Washington. You looked around and all you could see were people who agreed with you. Zillions of buses on I-95 all going to the same place. And it really made me think that the world was changing. But I was living in a bubble. All my friends were Jewish, middle-class, and educated. I didn’t even know anyone who owned a gun. I thought everyone wanted peace, and a better environment, and that nobody hated anyone. Then Nixon got elected using his Southern Strategy. He tapped into so much hatred and racism. And I realized: ‘My God. People are fucked up.’ Then my generation started marrying, having kids, and started caring less about the world. And probably me too. You can’t help it really. You have to become more self-involved. You only have so much energy you can expend in the world.”humansofny“He’s my nephew. I watch him two or three days a week while my sister is at work. Last night we went to see a play and today we’re just running errands. It’s nice to be an uncle because I can enjoy his company without feeling the burden of providing for him. We have a lot of fun. He’s got his own sarcastic sense of humor. He’s very inquisitive. He’s always asking about things. He’ll notice if people on the street are feeling bad, and he’ll point them out. It really forces me to be present.”humansofny“I want to be an engineer because you get to mess around with technology and help people. But first I need to get better at long division. One thing I’d like to do is make cheaper prosthetics for people in the army. One day I was bored so I googled them and saw that they cost $3500. Maybe I can make them the same way but with recycled materials.”humansofny“We had five or six miscarriages before we had our daughter. She was a twin, but the other one miscarried. So we call her our miracle baby. I was forty when she was born. We were close in every way. We’d always go camping and hiking together. She’s always loved animals and creatures. When she was little, she’d always pick up snakes and frogs and insects. She begged us for a dog, and when we finally got her one, she called it her ‘sister.’ Now she’s in vet school in Ohio. She sends me pictures all the time. She delivered twin goats last week. I’m getting to the point where I’d like to retire, but I’m going to keep working until she’s in a place where she feels secure. Then I can finally relax. We paid for her undergrad already. She took out loans for vet school, and we’ve agreed she’s going to pay them back herself. But you know, just in case, I’m going to keep working until she feels secure. Then I can relax.”humansofny“I distribute newspapers. I only planned on working for a few months after I graduated high school, but that turned into three years. I don’t want to be stuck in a dead end job my whole life. I should go to college. I just have a hard time following through. The moment any little thing goes wrong, I just put it off. I don’t know, maybe I’m depressed. When I was a kid, I’d stay up all night messing with software. I’d download a program, change the source code, and try to run it. I just wanted to see what would happen. If it didn’t work, I’d keep trying. I loved it. It was fun. Sometimes I’d stay up all night. Recently I tried to do it again, but nothing felt fun anymore. Everything just feels like work.”humansofny“Nobody knows that I smoke so I made sure to walk a couple blocks from the hotel. I’m trying to calm myself. Our annual general meeting is tonight and I’m in charge of the whole thing. I’ve been planning it for months. I took a long time off to raise my kids, and I’ve only been back working full time for a year. I want to make a good impression. Our organization has never really had a woman in leadership before, so it’s a big deal. And it’s a big deal for me. This isn’t about my husband or my kids. It’s something just for me that I can embrace fully. And I want to succeed. I want my children to know that I’m Mommy, but I’m still myself.”humansofny“I thought I would thrive here. I’ve got an MBA and a Masters in Engineering. I worked for a major real estate developer back in Brazil. I was in charge of land acquisitions. They would tell me: ‘Bruno, go find opportunities for us.’ I’d locate good properties and then negotiate a price. I generated a lot of revenue. I felt powerful. When I spoke to rich people and politicians, I’d feel like their equal. Not in an arrogant way. But I did not feel inferior when I spoke to them. Coming to New York has really challenged my confidence. I applied to over fifty companies when I arrived. Maybe one hundred. But nobody hired me. I have a new daughter coming in August, so now I’m trying to work as a real estate broker. But that has been very difficult too. I’ve only closed one deal so far, and I split that with another broker. Maybe it’s because my English is not perfect. Recently I offended a wealthy lady by suggesting she clean her apartment before showing it. I showed her some dust and she told me to never come back. That was really tough for me because I was really proud of my people skills. And now it seemed that even those had left me. But I think that things are finally beginning to turn around. I have two closings scheduled this month. And yesterday I spent all day with a lady from China, and she barely spoke English, but at the end of the day, she told me: ‘I trust you.’”humansofny“I graduated last May with an accounting degree and moved to the city. But four months had passed and I didn’t have a job yet. I’d probably sent out my resume to thirty different places. And I couldn’t afford to keep waiting for people to call me back. So I went to the strip with all the car dealerships, and started going door-to-door to see if they had any openings in accounting. I’ve always loved cars. I used to always read Consumer Reports with my dad. So I thought it would be a good fit. The lady at BMW was a bit standoffish. Then I went to Audi. They were great. Super welcoming. But they didn’t have any positions at the moment. Then I got to Jaguar/Land Rover-- which was my first choice, so I was working up to it— and they sat me down right there for an interview. I was there all afternoon, then they said: ‘We like what we see. Can you start tomorrow?’ I ran outside and called my parents. My dad was so proud of me. I was so proud of myself.”humansofny“Pleasing people is a huge drive. Any artist who tells you otherwise is either selfish or autistic. Art is a communication, and it’s not incompatible with your integrity to desire an audience. A public performance is a miracle. You never know who’s watching, but you feel a communion between yourself, the audience, and the composer who wrote the notes two hundred years ago. But fuck the notes. The notes are not important. They were the composer’s only means of communicating. The important thing is what’s between the notes and behind the notes. My job as a pianist is to interpret. Why did the composer put that note there? I need to understand the moment preceding the note. And when that happens-- when I can reach back two hundred years and connect to a composer’s humanity, even if I’m completely alone, it’s the same feeling of communion as when I perform in front of an audience.”humansofny“I’m a pianist. I’m playing my last concert Thursday night. Then I’m taking a sabbatical. Some of my friends think I’m crazy to step away now, but I don’t want to become a two-hundred-concert-per-year performing machine. It requires too much efficiency. And the efficiency burns you out. There is a lot of pressure when you perform at Lincoln Center or Carnegie Hall. People pay for those tickets and you must respect your audience. If you’re piloting a Boeing 777 with four hundred people on board, you aren’t going to try new maneuvers. You aren’t going to have fun or experiment. You don’t have time to stay in your dreams or ideas. You need to step back from the public eye so you have space to grow. I won’t say that taking time off makes you a ‘better’ musician, because I don’t like the word ‘better.’ It sounds competitive. But it does make you less of an automaton and more human. It’s like exploring a new continent. Time off is a space where you allow things to happen other than the known.”humansofny“I’m looking to establish a solid relationship with somebody. But it’s hard for me to imagine it happening. I’m not a kid anymore. I don’t have a home. I don’t have a heck of a lot to offer. Plus it’s been a long time since I’ve had any sort of relationship, so I’ve kind of lost track of how to deal with all that. I work at a sales center so I’m surrounded by people all day, elbow-to-elbow. It’s not so bad then. But then I go home, fix dinner, and bang—it all shuts off. That’s when I realize that I’m not in the situation that I want to be in. And I’m not sure how to get out of it.”humansofny“I’m in charge of international expansion for one of the largest consulting firms in the cannabis industry. Not only are we going to save the economy, we’re going to hit the reset button on human collective compassion. The only bombs we should be dropping in Iraq are weed bombs. Calm the fuck down, people.”humansofny“My kids are twelve and five. I want them to grow into good people despite all the negative influence out there. I really do think that only a small minority of people are jerks. But they all seem to be on TV.”humansofny“We met at summer camp in Maine. The first time I saw him, he was doing a fully clothed cannonball into the pool. We had our first kiss while lying on a trampoline. We’re going back to the same camp to get married this summer. We’re totally camping it up. All the guests are sleeping in cabins. We’re having campfires, smores, ring toss, ping pong, and a scavenger hunt.”humansofny“The kids have moved out. It’s like we were in a routine for twenty-five years, and now it’s come to an end. Suddenly it’s just the two of us. There’s nothing else to focus on. It’s been a rediscovery process. So we just bought some hiking backpacks. We’re going travel the world, and we’re not planning ahead.”humansofny“We married when I was nineteen. I was young. She was a bit older, and I was fine doing things her way. Things were good for the first ten or fifteen years. Then I remember looking around one day and realizing that there wasn’t a single piece of furniture in the house that I’d picked out. And suddenly I stopped answering all her commands with, ‘Yes dear,’ ‘Yes, dear,’ ‘Yes,dear.’ And that’s when the fighting started. Eventually we were fighting about everything. We argued for six months about whether to put track lighting in the kitchen. We hardly ever talked toward the end. We’d sit in the same room and not speak a word unless it was a snide comment. And forget about sex. She didn’t believe in that anymore. It got so bad that I’d literally stay in the office all night to avoid going home. I’m sure if you asked my ex-wife though, she won’t tell you about the ten years that sucked. She’ll tell you about when I got a girlfriend and moved out of the house.”humansofny“My wife first got breast cancer in 1999. Then it came back last year, and it’s in the bones now. I was a mess last year. Any time I wasn’t busy, I’d just start crying uncontrollably. Then I handed it over to God. I actually spoke to him, and said: ‘It’s all yours.’ And I’ve felt better since then. We’re hopeful. We know somebody whose bone cancer got so bad that her bones were breaking, and last month she tested completely clear. So we’re hopeful. It’s made me a better person in a way. I want her time to be as good as possible, so whenever there’s a confrontation, I don’t push it like I used to. I’ll just back away from it. Even if she’s wrong. I’ll back away and we’ll revisit it later when everyone is calm.”humansofny“I always wanted to be someone in the fashion industry. Maybe a stylist for the magazines. Instead I’m working as an office assistant at a pharmaceutical company. Though I must say, I think the office looks better because of me. I’ve been handing out tips. People are sprucing up a bit more. Some of the ladies are trying new lipsticks. We’re loosening up.”humansofny“I was a weird kid. I loved vintage clothes. I assumed that if I wore a 1950’s yellow sundress and matching jacket on the first day of school, everyone in sixth grade would love me. When I got to high school, I realized that all the other weird kids were in theater, so I started spending all my free time in the theater department. I was the costume designer. And by costume designer, I mean the person who organized the boxes of free shit people gave us.”humansofny“My horn died recently. The metal wore too thin and it lost its resonance. I feel like a widow. The best horns are handmade, and each one is a little different. I’d been playing it for twenty years. It was with me through my graduate degrees, my first job, all my major competitions, and when I finally got my dream job at the opera. I knew all its deficiencies. I could do so many things with it. I haven’t been able to replace it yet. I’ve had this new horn for seven months. There was an immediate attraction, but the more I play, the more I worry. The mouthpiece doesn’t quite seem to fit. But even if this relationship doesn’t work out, I’m sure there will be another. Hope springs eternal.”humansofny“We had to leave Russia eight years ago with two suitcases and our baby. My husband was a journalist. He was making reports about Chechnya. His only crime was telling the truth. The KGB came to our house and took all of our papers. They took our citizenship. We had to leave the country with Red Cross travel documents. We had to start over. Neither of us could speak English. My husband was an important journalist in Russia, but here he fixes swimming pools. Now he has big muscles but he’s very sad. I am very proud of myself. I was 30 years old when I came to here. I felt very alone. I had nothing. But I taught myself English. I taught myself to drive. The Metropolitan Opera gave me a job as a stitcher in the costume shop. They gave me a chance even though I didn’t speak English. I remember after a few weeks of working here, one of my coworkers gave me a dress that didn’t fit her anymore. It was the first time that I did not feel separate from this country. It felt like I belonged.”humansofny“My parents were teenagers when they had my brother and me. My mother abandoned us early on. My father told us she was manic-depressive. I remember going to the public library with my brother when I was nine or ten, trying to find out what ‘manic depressive’ meant. Mom came in and out of our lives over the next few years. She never stayed long. My father wasn’t much better. He was hardly ever home. My brother and I had to raise ourselves. School was my only outlet. I did everything: dance team, student council, honors society, even powerlifting. I was the first from my family to go to college. I went to graduate school at Columbia, and now I’m a college counselor for low-income students. I don’t talk to either of my parents. My mom sends me texts every once in awhile, but I don’t answer. Because it was all in spite of her. Not because of her.”humansofny“I was married for 25 years and had five children, but I allowed myself to make decisions based on emotional glitches. I had affairs. But they were affairs of the heart. I think I had a hunger to see myself as a great man in someone else’s eyes. My wife was a fine person, and she still is, but after 25 years of marriage things become settled. And when somebody else comes along and makes you feel like something special—it’s like catnip. You want more of it. You want to say: ‘Let’s get lunch sometime.’ But in the end, you are what you are no matter how somebody makes you feel. It’s just a feeling. And I wish I hadn’t chased it.”humansofny“I didn’t start running until I was 51 years old. I was a wimp at the time. A nothing. My marriage had fallen apart. I was only seeing my children on the weekends. I wasn’t sleeping well. I was waking up at 5:30 AM every morning, probably after a long night of drinking, and so I decided that I might as well go for a walk. As I walked around the park, I’d always see these runners out there. So I decided to give that a try. After a few weeks I could run six miles. After a year, I tried to run a marathon. I hit a wall at the twenty-mile mark, but I threw up and took a leak, then I found the energy to finish. I’ve been pushing through walls ever since. I ran sixteen marathons in seventeen years, until my doctor told me that I had to stop because of my heart. After that, I started walking ten miles a day. Now I’m 91 and my kneecap keeps collapsing, and I have trouble with my balance. But I’m still more confident than I ever was when I was younger. I was a wimp.”humansofny“I’ve been working as an actor and I’ve been in a bit of a rut recently. We need money for rent, school, every bill under the sun. And we want to have a kid soon, so we should really be putting money away for that. We sat down over pizza recently to figure out our finances. She helped convince me that I’m not an idiot.”
“I tend to be the more practical one in the relationship. I told him: ‘This isn’t you. This is just right now.’ We’ve just got to start from the basics and figure things out. Eric needs to be acting and making films, and I’m happiest when he’s doing those things. We just need to make a few small adjustments to make the numbers work. He’s extremely talented, but he agrees to do too many things for free. Nobody would ever ask a lawyer to work for free. But actors and artists get asked all the time. And if Eric likes the person, he’ll work for 80 hours with no compensation. It’s fine to do unpaid projects because you’re passionate. But you have to feel really strongly about it. In each case, we’ve got to ask if the passion is worth more than the dollars.”humansofny“I grew up in a small town in Canada. I was never the type who had a lot of friends. I was more the type that had ‘a friend.’ It would usually be a girl. So I never really felt connected with the larger group of kids. I was intimidated by social gatherings. I think music was my way of connecting with human emotion in a way that I wasn’t getting in everyday life. We had an old upright piano in the living room. I’d practice for five or six hours every day. I spent a lot of time alone. Music was my escape at first. But in the end it gave me a confidence that made it easier to relate to other people.”humansofny“I feel like when you’re young, you change every day. But I feel like now that I’m fifteen, I’m becoming a person. Everything is slowing down and I’m starting to dry like a mud statue. And it’s scary. Because I’m realizing the way that people are going to see me. And I’m learning the things that people are going to think about me.”
“But that’s not necessarily true. Change may slow down, but it becomes more deliberate. At this age you get to experience different things and try different personas, just like an actress. But it makes me proud how much you’re thinking through these things. You’re very good at managing complex emotions. Only thing I’m worried about is your learner's permit and the dogginess of boys.”humansofny“I knew a girl in high school that always complained about having anxiety. I used to make fun of her a little bit. It looked like nothing to me. So I assumed it was nothing. And I dealt with it by trying to convince her that it was nothing. I called her recently to apologize. I’ve had really bad anxiety ever since my father died. And it’s definitely not nothing. It’s the indescribable fear of nothing.”humansofny“We walked all around this big museum. A museum is a place where you can see art or animals. This museum has stuff like Jesus and I saw a statue of somebody cutting a head. I’ve been drawing the statues but I’m not good at drawing lips, and the hands have three fingers instead of five because that’s easier. I probably shouldn’t show you this one because… I don’t want to say it. You can see their… their… their…. BUTTS.”humansofny"He lets me paint his nails and put make-up on his eyes and he plays with me in my Barbie house which is like twenty feet tall."humansofny“I’ve been teaching the GED course for 21 years. I’ve helped over 300 students get their certificates. I had one student recently—he was 50 years old and only had a 6th grade education. He sat in the back of the class and didn’t say anything. He just watched. But then one day there was a tough algebra problem that nobody could figure out. He volunteered to come up and tried it on the board, and he got it. In front of everybody. The next day when I arrived, he was sitting in the front. After class I handed him a huge study guide, and told him: ‘If you’ll give 25 percent, I’ll give you 75 percent.’ I told him he could interrupt me at any time to ask me questions. And he did. It seemed like he was coming up to me every few hours-- in the cafeteria, while I was playing cards, while I was watching movies. After nine months he took the test and passed. He was so proud. He said he couldn’t wait to tell his daughter. A few months later I was sitting here in the visiting room, and this young woman kept looking at me. So much so that my girlfriend was starting to get upset. Eventually she walked over to me, and said: ‘Thank you so much for helping my father get his GED.’ It was the best feeling in the world.” (Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)humansofny(4/4) “When Donald finally got caught, they offered him a plea deal so I wouldn’t have to go to jail. But he refused it. He told my cousin: ‘If I can’t have her, nobody will.’ They arrested me at the courthouse on the same day Donald refused his deal. The public defender told me to sign a plea bargain. He told me no jail time. But at the sentencing, I heard the judge mention jail and I panicked. When the judge asked me if I’d been promised anything in exchange for the deal, I said: ‘Yes!’ The prosecutor was so mad. She thought I made her look bad. She pushed for a life sentence at trial. The jury never heard about the abuse. They only heard about the drugs. They didn’t realize that the true victims were me, my children, and my brother. I’ve been in prison for twenty years now. But this has a happy ending. And I swear, when I agreed to this interview, I didn’t even know this yet. But President Obama just granted me clemency. And I’m going home.” (Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)humansofny(3/4) “One night it got so bad that I got a gun and pointed it at him. I didn’t know how to use it. I didn’t even know if the safety was on. My son walked into the room at the time and tried to stand between us. Donald jumped over him, grabbed the gun, and pistol-whipped me. After that I tried to run away again. While Donald was taking flying lessons, I packed everything into a U-Haul and drove away so fast that the trailer came apart on the highway. When Donald discovered I was gone, he sent some goons to my brother’s house and beat him up in front of his entire family. When they finished beating him, they told him that my mother was next. So I went back. After that Donald didn’t trust me anymore. He made me start traveling with him. He didn’t give me a choice. He’d say: ‘Pack your bags. We’ve got business.’ He involved me with everything. He made me stand there while he dealt the drugs. He made me call people and relay messages for him. He had me make deliveries. I did everything he told me to.” (Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)humansofny(2/4) " One day I walked into Donald’s office and saw him handing off a package of cocaine. I turned around and left immediately. He came out later and told me that he was just doing it to get his business off the ground. He said he needed to raise $25,000 to cover expenses. I was naive at that point. I even called my mother and asked her to help arrange a small business loan. But Donald started dealing more and more. He kept it from me. He started running a lot of errands. He started taking trips twice a month. The day I went into labor with our first child, he dropped me off at the hospital and went to park the car. He didn’t come back until the next day. The abuse got worse and worse. He’d throw water on me. He’d burn me with a lighter. When I was pregnant with our second child, Donald hit me in the head with a telephone. After I got to prison, we watched a movie one night about Tina Turner, called ‘What’s Love Got To Do With It?’ There’s this one scene where Ike is dragging Tina down the hallway by her hair, and her sons are watching the whole thing and crying. I couldn’t believe it. I felt like I was watching a movie about my life.” (Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)humansofny(1/4) "I met Donald when I was twenty-six. He pursued me relentlessly. He’d call me every day. He’d invite me to come to the Bahamas with him. He’d buy me all kinds of things. He would even loan me his vintage corvette for the weekend. I was just starting out in life. I wasn’t used to all that attention. He had his own landscaping company-- with his own building and everything. He wooed my whole family. Even my mother liked him, and she isn’t easily persuaded. So I fell for him. The abuse didn’t start until I was pregnant with our first child. We were lying in bed one night and he asked me to get him a glass of water. When I told him ‘no,’ he punched me in the face. He said: ‘When I ask you to do something, I expect you to do it.’ I tried to leave right away. I ran back to my family in New York. But he followed me and begged me to forgive him. He said he didn’t want our child to grow up without a father." (Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)humansofny“I’m sixty-two now. I have three more years. I sold heroin. A lot of it. I had forty people working for me. If you were to ask me thirty-four years ago what it was going to be like in prison, I couldn’t have imagined. It’s been the same thing every day. Everyone I care about is gone. My mother passed. My father passed. My brother and sister. If I look backwards, I’ll lose my mind. I just try to keep busy and take it one day at a time. I’ve done every self-help program in the system. I’m the lead facilitator for the Men of Influence program. We teach behavioral skills, financial management, and entrepreneurship. In the five years that I’ve been in charge, we’ve graduated 250 people, and only one has come back to prison. I tell them: ‘Don’t let me be your future.’ And if I could say one thing to everyone who reads this interview. I want to apologize for the harm that I caused. If I could go back in time and correct it, I would. But that’s what I’ve been trying to do for the past 34 years. I grew up in the Baltimore projects. Everyone that I knew had nothing. I was trying to improve my life with the information that I had at the time. I grabbed the wrong rope. I’m sorry if I caused generations behind me to go astray. It wasn’t my intention to bring pain to the community. And I really think that when I’m released, I can be an asset to society.” (Federal Correctional Institution: Cumberland, Maryland)humansofny“I knew a person who worked for an insurance company. I’d give her some money and then she’d give me all the information I needed to open fake credit lines. I’d create fake drivers licenses and then go into stores and open up lines of credit. You can buy about $10,000 worth of stuff at a time, and then sell it for 70% of face value. I’d also rent cars under their name, change the VIN number, and then sell them with fake titles. You can print a fake title on nice parchment, add a watermark, and nobody looks too close. Then even after I destroyed their credit, I could still use their information. I could print up some fake checks with their name on it and cash them at banks. My checks had magnetic ink and everything. I learned it all on the Internet. I tried to stay emotionally detached. I never learned too much about the people. They were just names to me. Nothing personal. Plus all of them were government employees. So why should I feel guilty? Does the government feel guilty about slavery?” (Federal Correctional Institution: Cumberland, Maryland)humansofny“I was convicted of distributing a large amount of crack cocaine. I was offered sixty months to cooperate, but I turned it down. My family is still mad about that. They say I chose the streets over them. But I couldn’t bring someone else down with me, so they gave me five life sentences. I’ve been here twenty years. I’ve seen a lot of these younger kids come back two or three times already. I try to guide them but it’s no use. They only seem interested in finding a better way to do bad. The library is always empty. None of these young guys take advantage of the programs. I encourage them to get their GED’s while they’re here, but they laugh at me. They don't respect their elders. Crack changed everything. So many of these young men saw their mothers and fathers doing drugs in the street. So many of their parents went to prison. These kids were forced to raise themselves. So they aren’t about to listen to anyone. I did the same thing to my kids. My son got murdered. My daughter had to raise herself because her mom is doing thirteen life sentences. But she’s the exception. She's got every excuse to be bitter, but she doesn't even talk about it. She’s got a 4.0 at the University of Virginia right now.” (Federal Correctional Complex: Allenwood, Pennsylvania)humansofny“It wasn’t really a gang. There aren’t Bloods or Crips in Puerto Rico. It was a neighborhood thing. There were no colors. There was no initiation. We just grew up together. I had two cousins and two brother-in-laws who were in the organization. There were ranks: watchers, dealers, runners, leaders, enforcers. But the ranks didn’t really get in the way of the relationships. We all played basketball together. We threw block parties for the whole neighborhood. It was like a family. There was only one entrance and one exit to our neighborhood. The houses were all close together. There were no lawns. On the night it ended, I could hear the doors breaking down all around me. Helicopters were overhead. I kept getting calls saying: ‘They got this person, they got that person, they got your cousin.’ I just sat in the middle of the living room, smoking a cigarette. Suddenly I heard a bunch of footsteps coming up the stairs. I heard the sound of a power saw and sparks started coming off my door. I went to open the door but I got hit with a flashbang, and eight guys rushed in. They got everyone that night. They didn’t even bring us to a jail. They brought us to a basketball stadium.” (Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)humansofny“I was in college when I started. I was going to school and working at a print shop. There was a drug point outside of my apartment building. I played basketball with the guy who ran it. He told me: ‘I’ve got one night open, and I’m going to offer it to you first.’ My shift was on Friday, 6pm to 6am. We sold weed, heroin, and crack. I made $500 that first night. I was nineteen. My girlfriend wasn’t sure about it, but I bought her some high heels with the money, and I promised her I’d keep working at the print shop. After a few weeks, Saturday and Sunday opened up too. Then Wednesday. I started making 2k, then 3k, then 5k per week. I went to register for my next semester of college, but the line was too long, so I never went back. I didn’t have to wake up at 7 AM anymore. I could wake up whenever I wanted. The money made me feel powerful. People would stop talking when I began to talk. I could give an old lady $100 to pay her light bill. I could give kids $50 to go to the movies. The guy who first offered me the job had a house, and kids, and cars, and a motorcycle. He’d been working for twenty years with no problem. I thought: ‘Why can’t that be me?’” (Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)humansofny“I’ve organized a lot of programs in prison. One of the classes I started is called Creative Parenting. It’s the most popular class here. The waiting list is really long. I don’t have any kids myself, but I noticed that most guys are really soft for their kids. So that gave me an idea. Mainly we just make stuff and send it to the kids. We’ll do coloring projects where the father will color half the picture, and the kid will color the second half. We write bedtime stories. Most of the guys write about sports, but we make sure that every story has a moral. Sometimes we’ll take funny photos and send them to the kids. One guy’s daughter was really into My Little Pony. He was a tough guy. He was in a gang and everything, but he put his hair into pigtails and pretended to be a horse. We did another class where we made cards for kids with cancer. I had my family set it up with a hospital. We made about 200 cards. They didn’t want us to write ‘I hope you feel better,’ because that reminds the kids of what they’re going through. So we tried to keep it focused on Christmas. There were 150 guys in my unit, and 60 signed up for that program. A lot of the guys had to wait outside because the room was too small.” (Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)humansofny“My dad couldn’t handle me. My mother was an alcoholic so he raised us on his own. I burned our house to the ground when I was four years old. I didn’t like my brother’s stuffed animal, so I set it on fire. The next year I punched my dad in the face. I threw a desk at my teacher in fifth grade. I ran away when I was twelve. My dad tried everything. He took me to psychologists. They diagnosed me with Intermittent Explosive Disorder, so they put me on medication. But it didn’t help much. Nobody could control me. They’d actually have to hold me down when I went into a rage. Dad could never get a point across because if he raised his voice, I’d explode. He’d try to give me incentives. He’d say things like: ‘If you do good in school, I’ll bring you to a ball game.’ He’d follow the school bus to make sure I didn’t skip, but then I’d just run out the back exit. Neither of my brothers ever got in trouble. It was just me. I’ve gotten multiple assault charges. I fight. That’s what I do. I feel like my head is going to burst and I see stars and I snap. My dad comes to visit about once a month, and we talk things over, just like we’re doing now. And he asks me all the time, ‘What else could I have done?’ I tell him: ‘Nothing. You did everything you could.’” (Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)humansofny“I was a good student. I did football, karate, basketball, all sorts of activities. I never skipped school. I first sold drugs when I was twelve or thirteen. It wasn’t a full time thing. Just whenever I needed money. My mom was raising four of us in a one-bedroom apartment, so we didn’t have money for clothes. I just needed enough to keep people from focusing on me. Just enough to keep moving. But as I got older, it cost more and more to stay up. Girls came into the picture. I wanted to impress them. I started dealing more and more, and all the other activities faded out of my life. I tried to study nursing after high school. I paid my tuition with drug money. But I lost focus after two years and fell back on drug dealing. I thought I could be double-minded. But it’s not possible. You can’t do good and bad at the same time. The bad always wins. There’s no such thing as Robin Hood. Nobody wants to hear that you’re dealing drugs to feed your family. Prosecutor doesn’t want to hear that. Society doesn’t want to hear that. The system doesn’t want to hear that. There’s a verse in the Book of Ezekiel, I forget which one, but it talks about this. It says something like: ‘If you do all good, and one bad, the good will not be mentioned.’” (Federal Correctional Institution: Cumberland, Maryland)humansofny“I got caught up in a little something. I’ve got twenty days left. Nobody knows I’m here. I’ve got somebody updating my Facebook page for me. All my friends think I’m in Hawaii right now.” (Metropolitan Correctional Center, New York)humansofny“I was alone with four kids. My mother was sick. I was making $500 a week working at a restaurant in Harlem. This Colombian woman told me she could help. She said, ‘We need honest people like you.’ I really needed the money. They gave me a job as a transporter. I drove cocaine from Manhattan to Massachusetts. They gave me some extra to sell at the restaurant. I only had a few clients. I did it for two years. I never did any drugs myself. Then I was set up in a sting by the same woman who got me started. I knew I’d done wrong but I’d never been in trouble before. I thought I would do a little time in jail. The detectives told me: ‘You’re a leader. You’re this. You’re that.’ The lawyer told me to sign these papers. I didn’t understand what to do. They told me I didn’t have a chance at trial. They told me they were helping me. I was given 25 years.”
(Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)humansofnyHad to take down Michelle's photo and story due to a request from someone in the background. So I'm reposting her story --- #TBT remix edition. (Photo Credit: Miquelle West, @miquellewest on Instagram) “I’ve got a daughter out there. I’ve been gone for 23 years now. It’s really hurt her. My sister told me that after graduation, when everyone else was taking photos with their family, my daughter just broke down and cried. When she visits, she tells me that she feels too guilty to start a family because I won’t be there to see it. But she’s been very successful despite me. She’s a stylist. She’s doing so well. I can’t do much in here to support her, but I try my best. I’ve ordered all the fashion magazines: Vogue, Marie Claire, Elle, Bazaar. She’s too busy to read them all, so I look through them and try to find something that might help her. I set aside anything that she might be able to use for an Instagram post. She posts pictures of me on there, but only on ‘Throwback Thursday.’ She’s not ashamed of me, but she just doesn’t want anyone to see this khaki uniform. She hates it.”humansofny“I thought it was a bomb at first. It pushed the building, so I was thrown against the wall. Nobody screamed. It was silent except for the sound of ringing phones. There was no announcement or anything, everyone just started walking toward the exits. I remember the stairs were wet. Fuel had poured down through the elevator shafts so it smelled like a really strong cleaning product. I still smell it when I’m dreaming. Everyone was calm and quiet in the stairwell. A lot of people were out of shape, so we were moving slowly. Occasionally we’d move out of the way to let a fireman run past. People didn’t begin to panic until we reached the ground floor because there was broken glass everywhere and bodies on the ground. That’s the first time we started running. The police actually tried to keep us inside the lobby because bodies were falling outside, but we pushed past them. I remember being shocked by all the people who were standing around, looking up. I couldn’t understand why a person would do that. I walked thirty blocks, then I caught a ride to midtown. I tried walking down into a subway station to see if the trains were running. An attendant was sitting in the booth, watching the television, and she said: ‘They’re gone.’ And that was when I finally felt fear. Until then, it had only been survival.” (Metropolitan Correctional Center, New York)humansofny“I tried to make some money the honest way as a kid. I tried shoveling snow. I tried a newspaper route. I stuck with it for awhile, but one day I was collecting money on my route and these older kids robbed me. There were three of them. They were 16 or 17. I fought hard. I told them: ‘I worked hard for this money.’ But they held me down and took it anyway. It was $27. And that made me feel so powerless. And I remembered that I knew someone with a knife. And I thought: ‘I’m going to steal that knife and deal with this firmly.’ I found those boys at an arcade. Nobody got killed. But I hurt them. I wouldn’t say that I felt proud after stabbing them, but I felt like they got what they deserved. I felt vindicated. Even today, I have trouble sympathizing with them. It’s funny how that works. When someone wrongs us, we want the maximum amount of punishment. But when we do wrong, we want the maximum amount of understanding and forgiveness.” (Metropolitan Correctional Center, New York)humansofny“My father died when I was six. He drowned on a fishing trip. My mother had to raise five of us in North Philadelphia. I remember being twelve years old and going to a market on the corner. My mother had sent me with a note, asking for some credit so we could buy some food. The owner made me wait. There were other people in the store, and they were paying, so this guy is just skipping all over me. He’s making me beg in front of everyone. He’s saying things like: ‘Your mom still owes me. She never pays.’ My mom was my queen, and he’s running her down in front of all these people. It was degrading. I hated that he had that power over me. Like he had water, and I was thirsty. So I screamed at him and stormed out. I kept thinking: ‘One day I’m going to buy that store.’ But then I calmed down, and I realized that I just spazzed on the one guy who could help us. So I walked up to some of the dope boys on the corner, and asked them to let me earn. They thought I was too young at the time. They wanted to protect me. So they just gave me the money.” (Metropolitan Correctional Center, New York)humansofny“I was working at a nightclub in Honduras, making $4 a night, and some guy tells me that I can make $6,000 in twelve days just by working on a boat. There weren’t any jobs in Honduras. We didn’t have government benefits like you have here. It’s really tough to say ‘no’ when there are no other options for money. So I agreed. They put me on a small fishing boat. We transported cocaine from Colombia to Honduras. My job was to maintain the vessel and help load the cargo. I’ve never done drugs in my life. On our fourth trip, we were stopped in international waters by the US coastguard. We had 986 kilograms of cocaine. That was ten years ago.” (Federal Correctional Complex: Allenwood, Pennsylvania)humansofny(2/2) “One day I stole my neighbor’s benefit check out of the mailbox, and she came looking for it. I was in my mid-twenties, and by that time the voices were very strong. They were screaming at me to do bad things. They were telling me to protect myself. That I was in danger. So I went downstairs to the woman’s apartment where she lived with her ten-year-old daughter. I can’t remember this or I won’t sleep tonight. I kept vomiting while it happened. I didn’t sleep for two weeks. The woman and her daughter kept coming back to life and I would see them everywhere. One time I opened the shower curtain and the woman was standing there and I screamed. The detectives questioned me but they let me go. They didn’t suspect me. I went to Jamaica and lived for two years and nobody looked for me. But the images were always in my head. I couldn’t take it anymore. I went to the American embassy, and I told them: ‘I’ve committed a murder.’” (Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)humansofny(1/2) “My childhood ended early. I was sexually abused by two family members until the age of eleven. It happened every time I went to stay at my grandmother’s house. I didn’t feel like I could tell my mother or father. West Indian culture is a little different. We didn’t really talk like that. People wondered why I didn't act like a kid. They were always asking why I never smiled. I was angry all the time. I got suspended from school in 9th grade for fighting, because somebody touched my breast in the stairwell. The voices started later-- the Christmas after my father was murdered. I take injections for them today. But back then I didn’t see them as voices. I used to call them my friends. I really thought people were talking to me. They had different personalities. They always said bad things, like: ‘It’s not worth being alive.’ Or ‘Go ahead and kill yourself.’” (Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)humansofny“He’s a beautiful person. He always tells me: ‘We’ve got to find a way to win by losing.’ In the eyes of society, we’ve lost already. Everyone in here is a loser. We can either be angry about it, or we can keep trying to grow. He’s always correcting my Spanish and giving me quizzes. He used to be an engineer, so he’s been tutoring me in trigonometry. He’s been a blessing to me. He’s helped me to not be so angry. He’s always so happy and optimistic. And I don’t know how he stays so positive. Because I’m getting out of here in 40 months. He’s doing life.” (Federal Correctional Complex: Allenwood, Pennsylvania)humansofny“My mom was a single mom and there were nine of us. All of the kids worked in the fields. I started when I was twelve. We picked cucumbers, apples, corn, strawberries, all of it. None of us went to school. Nobody cared-- if you move around a lot, the system loses track of you. Whenever the harvest was done, we’d go somewhere else. We always signed a contract. The farmers would give us a place to live and a little bit of money, and we worked in their fields. But there was never any money left when we finished. One day when I was eighteen, a friend of mine asked me to hide some marijuana in our trailer. He gave me a little money. I gave it to my mom. And that’s how it all began.” (Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)humansofny“This is my fifth time in prison. Every crime I’ve committed has come from my addiction. Best case scenario is I get out of here, rebuild my life, and join the one percent of people who have beaten a meth addiction. Worst case scenario is I become no more than what I am today. And honestly, if I mess up again, I hope it kills me. Because I don’t want to keep hurting people. I’ve cheated my kids out of normal lives. My seventeen-year-old daughter is in a home for teen moms. My twenty-one-year-old son is in jail. My eighteen-year-old daughter is doing OK. She’s got a job at FedEx and goes to college. She hates drugs and thinks the world is a good place and that nobody is out to hurt her. She wants to help me. She wants me to come live with her when I get out. I don’t think that’s a good idea.” (Federal Correctional Complex: Hazleton, West Virginia)humansofny“I actually escaped once. I was picked up for possession of heroin and taken to the police station. They handcuffed my hands and feet, shackled me to the wall, and left me in the interrogation room with a can of soda. I ripped up the soda can until I had a thin strip of aluminum, and I wedged it into the teeth of the handcuffs so I could override the locking mechanism and pull them apart. Then I dragged the shackles for two miles to a friend’s house and borrowed a bobby pin to pick the locks on my hands and feet. I honestly didn’t think the police would care that much. It was just a bag of heroin. I thought they’d check my mom’s house and give up. Instead they sent out dogs and helicopters. My picture was all over the news. They caught me after a few hours. They weren’t very happy. It wasn’t an easy thing to do. Extremely stupid, I know. But not easy.” (Federal Correctional Complex: Allenwood, Pennsylvania)humansofny“I was studying landscape architecture at Penn State and dealing drugs on the side. At the age of twenty, I got arrested with a quarter pound of mushrooms and a pound of marijuana. I assumed my life was over at that point. I didn’t think I could bounce back from a felony charge so I pretty much gave up on everything. I started doing cocaine and heroin while I waited on my sentencing, and I’ve been an addict ever since. I’ve spent a total of fifteen years in prison for various drug charges. My last arrest was for producing Fentanyl. It’s extremely difficult to make—it’s stronger than heroin and a much more complicated molecule than meth. I only know of one other person on the east coast who figured out how to make it. There were so many laws in place to keep people from getting the materials. I had no resources and no connections but I studied organic chemistry and found a way. When I finally got caught, all they wanted to know was how I did it. That’s the problem with my addiction. I’m smart enough to get around anything. So there’s never been anything to stop me but myself.” (Federal Correctional Complex: Allenwood, Pennsylvania)humansofnyFor the next several days, I will be sharing stories of inmates from five different federal prisons across the Northeast—including Manhattan and Brooklyn.humansofny“My wife passed away last January. We’d been married for 62 years. You caught me at a time when I’ve been thinking a lot about love because I’m reading Shakespeare’s sonnets. The definition of love is elusive, which is why we write about it endlessly. Even Shakespeare couldn’t touch it. All the greatest love stories just seem to be about physical attraction. Romeo and Juliet didn’t know ifthey liked the same books or movies. It was just physical. After 62 years, it becomes something different entirely. My wife used to say: ‘We are one.’ And believe me, she was not the type of person to overstate something. Now that she’s gone, I realize how right she was. So much of our lives were linked. We were very physical and affectionate. But we also shared every ritual of our life. I miss her every time I leave a movie and can’t ask for her opinion. Or every time I go to a restaurant and can’t give her a taste of my chicken. I miss her most at night. We got in bed together at the same time every night.”humansofny“Both my parents were in prison while I was growing up. I’ve been in prison for 90% of my life, mainly for drugs. When I got out in 2014, there was this old lawyer in the Bronx who took an interest in me. His name was Ramon Jimenez. He’s kind of like a community activist. I don’t know why he cared so much, but he sat down with me and tried to map out my life. When I tried to start selling drugs again, Ramon came out and stood on the corner with me for three days straight. Here’s this 72 year old dude, shadowing me wherever I go, screaming at anyone who tried to walk up to me: 'I'm calling the cops!' I was so mad. But after three days I gave it up.”humansofny“She’s the glue for the entire family. She plans everything, and everything centers around bringing us together. We’re just leaving a dinner with our son that she arranged. During the holidays, she organizes all sorts of games and scavenger hunts. She even buys everyone the same pair of pajamas for Christmas morning. On one of our anniversaries, she turned our living room into a French restaurant called ‘The House of Love.’ All because our eight-year-old daughter was studying French in school."humansofny“I can diet for two or three days. I can eat a few salads and pretend like I enjoy them. But then I always have a massive relapse. I just left Checkers. Some guy handed me a coupon on the street and that was all it took. Next thing you know I’m eating two burgers and a fry. Total disaster. Only $4 though. I’ll have a salad for dinner tomorrow.”humansofny“It’s like I’m on eggshells all the time. Nothing but stress. I get $696 a month from social security. I could get more if I pretend to be bipolar like some people I know, but they make you take medicine to get your disability benefits. I'm not going to sit around like a zombie to get extra money. When I pay my bills, I have $30 left over. I can feed myself with 59-cent cans of tuna. I tried one of those food pantries but they aren’t even worth the time. I didn’t even know that pints of milk still existed. The bus drivers in the Bronx are cool so they let me ride for free. So that’s good. I can get around. But I can’t afford for anything to go wrong. Some lady is letting me stay in her place for cheap while she lives with her daughter, so I have a place to live. But it’s rent controlled so I’m not even supposed to be there. Every time I go home it’s like four layers of doom. First I’m terrified that my key won’t work. Then I’m terrified that there’s a letter in my mailbox. Then I’m afraid that the elevator won’t work—but that’s just cause I’m a lazy fuck. And then when I finally get to my apartment, I’m afraid there’s a letter under the door. Nothing but stress. I never feel safe. Every time there’s a knock on the door, I think it’s the end.”humansofny“I’m a colon therapist. I flush out your blockages so you can be your authentic self. I'm the Queen of Poo. A lot of people are intimidated by the process so I try to deflect the awkwardness with humor. I’m a one girl comedy show. But I don’t have a planned set or anything. It’s all organic. Stuff just comes out.”humansofny“I’m writing a book about Basil The Bat Lord, who is a human that enters into a tryout for becoming a king. And he’s either going to be the king of the Bat Kingdom, the Spider Kingdom, or the Snake Kingdom. And there’s one more kingdom too, I forget. Oh yeah, The Moth Kingdom. But then Wilda the Witch gets the Spider Kingdom to start attacking all the other kingdoms. And Basil gets the Moth Kingdom to help defeat Wilda. But I’m not going to tell you how Wilda is defeated because then people won’t be as excited about my book.”humansofny"Just catching some rays."humansofny“We’re associate financial representatives—assistants, basically. We planned this vacation in the break room for weeks. We mapped out everything. It’s been a very efficient trip. We went to thirty-five destinations. Everything was planned hour by hour. We mapped out our routes, calculated travel times, chose what snacks we would eat, and even included the time we would need to get ready in the morning. Today got a little messed up because we slept in, but we’re back on track. We have another thirty minutes at the ice rink, then we’re getting a shiitake mushroom burger at Umami, then we’ll get some gelato, and we’re ending the night with a walk down 5th Avenue.”humansofny“I’ve got a bit of a jewelry addiction. I probably have over sixty bracelets. I go into a sort of trance when I see a piece of jewelry, and I feel like it’s going to give me a power or beauty that’s not obtainable without it. I saw this gun and thought it would make me feel more ‘hip hop.’ I started having second thoughts once I got in line at the cash register, but there was already so much momentum at that point. Now I’m not so sure about it. I’ve got to stop spending money.”humansofny“I grew up in a blue collar family. My dad was a printer—a union guy. So he didn’t have the financial resources to pay for my college or law school. I had to make my own way. I flipped burgers during the week for frat guys at the Student Union. I covered my tuition by spending my summers in the Marine reserves. I’m trying to make sure my kids don’t have to do all that stuff. I want them to be able to backpack through Europe, or volunteer in Central America. Meaningful stuff. If my son wants to be a poet or an Indian chief, that’s fine with me. I work 60 or 70 hours a week to make sure they can do whatever they want. I miss a lot of stuff, though. I have to hear about the soccer games second hand. That’s why the snowstorm this weekend was so great. No school commitments. No work commitments. We didn't do much at all. Just sat around and read the newspaper or watched TV. There was just a lot of—talk.”humansofny“I do pro wrestling on the side. It’s my weekend high. My wrestling name is Dirtbag Dan. I’m not very big so I’m one of the dirtiest fighters. My job is to make people hate me. I do all kinds of cheap moves: eye gouging, face-raking, stuff like that. I even gave a guy a wet willy once. I’ll go into the crowd and rip people’s signs up. I’ll tell a college kid that he should have been swallowed. Or if it’s family night, I’ll tell a little girl there’s no Santa Clause. Somebody’s got to be the bad guy. Because if there aren’t bad guys, there are no good guys. There can be no Chris Steeler without Dirtbag Dan.”humansofny“I’ve tried to relax my goals as I’ve gotten older so they don’t get in the way of enjoying the people I’m with right now.”humansofny“The other team’s snow fort is higher than ours, so we’re trying to build some walls. It’s going to be a tough battle, because all they have to do is stand up and they can throw snowballs right into our fort. But I think we have the most friendship so that will be an advantage. We’ve known each other since we were three and we’re on the same soccer team. So if one person gets hit in the face with a snowball, everyone else will help to recover them.”humansofny“We’re kinda trying to make an igloo but we’re not sure how to make the roof.”humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny"When we go to the parent-teacher conferences, they always tell us that he has difficulty paying attention and can't sit still in his seat, but that he has a big heart and always sticks up for kids who are getting picked on. And that makes me proud. Because we've always told him that it doesn't matter how smart you are, as long as you're a good person."humansofny"Whenever I'm doing my doll's hair, he comes in and ruins everything."
"I want to get in on the fun. I'm just not understanded."humansofny"We found a car!"humansofny“I grew up in the church. I accepted Christ when I was seven years old. At the age of sixteen, I decided to dedicate my life to serving Jesus while attending a mission camp worship service. My biggest accomplishment is all the times I’ve helped young kids find a relationship with Christ. And my biggest goal in life is to tell everyone about Jesus. I’m here in New York trying to plant churches. It’s a mission field unlike any other. There are people here from all over the world, so the message you spread here can travel anywhere. I know all my answers are super churchy, but feel free to share it. I won’t be reading the comment section.”humansofny“I want to raise good people. I don’t want them to grow into people who will do anything they can to get ahead. So every chance I get, I’m trying to teach them to put themselves in other peoples’ shoes. I always ask my oldest daughter to describe how she thinks another person feels. Then we try to imagine ways to make them feel better. I want them to learn that, yes, it feels good to get what you want. But it can feel just as good to help someone else get what they want.”humansofny“At my high school, the first kid to get a pair of new Jordan's was the king, and the kid who couldn’t afford them was bait for the sharks. My mom and I didn’t have much money so I got teased a lot. Sometimes it got so bad that I’d have panic attacks. One day all the kids were being especially nice to me in history class. Everyone was acting like my friend, but as soon as the bell rang, they all threw soap at me at the same time. I lived in a homeless shelter at the time. I liked being at the shelter much more than being at school. Everything at school was a competition. But everyone at the shelter helped each other out. People would share clothes, cook for each other, and babysit for each other. We were all at rock bottom, so nobody thought they were better than each other.”humansofny“We first saw each other in a stage combat class, but were too afraid to speak to each other. But then we happened to ride in the same carpool to the Renaissance Fair. She was a sheperdess. I was Will Scarlett—who is Robin Hood’s number two, when Little John is not around.”humansofny“I play the drums on the subway for about three hours per day. It’s like the matrix down here. A lot of bad energy. Everyone is rushing and tense and people don’t like to look at each other. So I’m trying to spread some positivity and keep people out of the zombie zone. Yesterday I was singing some Bob Marley and a man screamed at me to stop playing. I think he was bothered by my light. He got too close to the sun."humansofny“I’m doing post doctorate research in health economics. My research looks at two variables: dollars spent and numbers of years lived. The goal is to determine how best to utilize Medicaid dollars to maximize the lifespan of recipients. It’s important to study healthcare because it’s the most precious resource we have. Monday was Martin Luther King Day, and he said that there was no greater injustice in America than our distribution of healthcare. Researchers can determine your life expectancy based on the closest subway stop to your house. That’s not due to genetics. That’s not because the breadbasket of America is running out. That’s because of how we choose to divide our resources. And I think it defines our character as a society.”humansofny“I’m just trying to survive. I don’t have any money in the bank. I pick up whatever minimum wage jobs that I can, mainly fast food. At the job program, they tell us that we should never tell an interviewer: ‘I need a job.’ Instead we’re supposed to say: ‘I like customer service.’ That’s true for me though. I do feel good when I'm providing customer service. It helps me not worry about all the other stuff in my life.”humansofny“I’m trying to find the thing that motivates me to get me out of bed every morning. Basketball makes me come to the park every day and work hard. Now I just need to find the thing that makes me work hard on everything else. I want to get my grades up to a 4.0. Now that I’m talking to you, I think my main motivation is going to be my mom. Her dream is to have a house where we all live on different floors. I'm not sure about that idea. But I do want to get her a house.”humansofny"We've been together for ten months now so we're trying to keep the passion alive."humansofny“I started studying Christianity more ever since my husband joined the seminary. I’m not offended by it. When you step back from the literal interpretation, you realize that so much of the Bible is aimed at survival. Look at all the crazy dietary restrictions. Homosexuality was forbidden because it didn’t lead to reproduction. For the same reason, if you had sex during your wife’s period, you had to sacrifice a hamster in the temple. The people who wrote the Bible were speaking with the only language that they knew at the time—survival. When I step back from that, I see a book that attempts to use symbols and stories to understand the source of life. And that source is depicted as completely loving. And I think that’s beautiful.”humansofny“I felt attracted to other boys when I was four years old, but by the time I hit puberty, it felt like a tractor beam was pulling me toward another person. I didn’t know any other gay people. There was no Internet back then. I had no information about life beyond my neighborhood, church, family, and friends. So I thought I was sick. I considered suicide when I was thirteen. I had the pills measured out and everything. But I picked up a psychology textbook from the library, and it said that all teenage boys go through a phase of sexual exploration. So I thought: ‘It’s just a phase. I can handle a phase.’ I thought as soon as I had a heterosexual encounter, it would all go away. It was a lie, of course. But it got me through my teenage years. And by the time I realized it wasn’t a phase, I’d developed so many other parts of my identity. I’d become good at swimming, running, and playing the cello. I was making good grades. I was even smoking pot. So by the time I finally accepted being gay, my identity was based upon a lot more than my sexuality.”humansofny“We started out just hooking up but then it got serious and that was weird so we stopped dating for awhile, but then we realized it’s OK so we started dating again and now it’s great. I hope that doesn’t sound bad. That sounded bad. I mean, it was the correct information but I presented it in the wrong way. This is weird. I look like a dick. Ask him a question now.”humansofny"You don't have to show your skin to get attention."humansofny“I’m still a junior resident so I only do basic surgeries. But once I left such a small scar after removing a man’s gallbladder that he sent me a box of chocolates.”humansofny“I think I felt entitled to success because I’m smart and I’m good at stuff and I work hard. Maybe ‘entitled’ isn’t the right word, but I just thought things would happen for me. I went to a private school in DC—the same place that Obama’s kids go. Then I studied film at Columbia. But not much has happened for me since. I guess the main thing that I lack is single-mindedness. I’m too scattered and complacent. I have a hard time finishing things. I paid to go on a screenwriting retreat recently. It was a bunch of New Yorkers at an old monastery in the middle of Italy. It was a magical, quiet place, and we didn’t talk until noon, and I managed to finish about 60 pages of a screenplay. I left feeling very motivated. But when I got back to New York, I lost focus again. Recently I had my ten-year reunion at Columbia, and that was pretty traumatic. Some of the kids from my film program had become famous. Everyone seemed to have a good job. I used to pride myself on not being focused on money. Now I’m thinking that would have been preferable to not having focus at all.”humansofny“I’m a Customer Engagement Program Operations Director with a pharmaceutical company. I started working there twenty years ago. At the time, it was just a temporary position. I was writing standard operation procedures to ensure FDA compliance. It was boring and technical, but I was trying to become a theater director and needed the extra income. I remember looking at my coworkers, and thinking: ‘I’m not one of them. I’m just here to make money and leave.’ But I moved to a full time position after my daughter was born. I didn’t want her to be at the mercy of me wanting to become an artist. Soon I no longer saw myself as different than my coworkers. The sense of ‘other’ disappeared. I realized that nobody saw themselves primarily as an employee at a pharmaceutical company. A few years ago, the company gave us a survey to test our morale. One of the questions was: ‘Do you have a best friend at work?’ Everyone laughed at that question. But I do have a best friend at work. His office is down the hall and we’ve seen each other every day for ten years. And that does make a big difference in my life.”humansofny“My wife and I were eating at a rib joint in Key Largo, and we actually took out a piece of paper and made a pros and cons list. The ‘con’ list was pretty normal: time, money, things like that. I remember at the top of the ‘pro’ list was: ‘Full Human Experience.’ After our daughter was born, that became an inside joke with us. Every time she was screaming at bath time, my wife and I would look at each other and say: ‘Full Human Experience.’ The first three months were the hardest. Honestly, we wondered if we’d made a mistake. It was like a bomb dropped and eviscerated everything in our lives. But then our daughter started growing up, and learning to do things on her own, and we kept taking small steps back and getting more of our own time back. There’s an unexpected sadness to getting your life back. It’s like your getting laid off slowly from an equally grueling but joyful job. She’s ten now. And I’ll notice that she’ll be reading alone for an hour without getting bored and jumping on me. We used to make tents on the bed, now it’s more homework and YouTube. Sometimes she’ll go in her room for a long time and close the door. Her life is becoming hers and I’m fascinated by where it’s going to go. But it’s bittersweet that she needs me less and less.”humansofny"What's your favorite thing about your mom?"
"She nags me a lot. And I know that doesn't sound like a good thing, but that means she loves me."humansofnyThe President took a few moments to greet Dr. Hamo last night after the speech. Such a cool end to an awesome day. Hopefully this will be the conclusion of Dr. Hamo's story as a refugee, and his narrative will now be defined by his contributions as a scientist and American citizen. He truly is a remarkable man and I was honored to share the day with him.humansofnyDr. Hamo just arrived at the White House for a reception before attending the State of the Union tonight. It’s been a bit surreal reconnecting under these circumstances, since the last time I saw him was during our initial interview in Istanbul. It’s been great catching up. While he’s honored to be representing refugees tonight, he wishes foremost to be seen as a scientist, and hopes that soon he will be known more for his work than his refugee status. And the best news of all--- Dr. Hamo recently underwent surgery to have a large tumor removed from his stomach. It was benign.humansofny"I'm not really a 'lyrics guy.'"humansofny(3/3) “We stopped playing for ten years after our father’s death. We lost all direction. All of us hit the streets and started selling drugs. Our lives fell apart for a long time. Recently we all got home from prison and we had a meeting. We said: ‘This is not us,’ and we decided to start playing again. We bought some old instruments and tried to practice but it was hard at first. We’d forgotten so much, and it was the first time we’d ever played without Dad counting out the beats. But it started to come back to us, like riding a bike. Now we use the music to support each other. If one of us needs something, all of us come out and play. If one of us is behind on rent, we come out and play. If one of us needs to buy Christmas presents for his kids, we come out and play.”humansofny(2/3) “Our mother left when we were young. One morning we woke up and there was no breakfast in the kitchen and our clothes weren’t laid out. Dad got very bitter. We started seeing rolled up dollar bills on the table. I think he maybe slept six nights that entire first month. He went from sniffing cocaine, to smoking cocaine, to doing heroin. The drugs actually made him tougher on us. We had less freedom than ever. But by the time we were teenagers, we were beginning to get noticed in the music world. We were getting gigs. We were called The Stokes Family Singers. We even met Michael Jordan when we did a concert at his restaurant. But Dad had a stroke at work one day and died suddenly. And everything came apart.”humansofny(1/3) “Our father was the music teacher at our school. He was very religious and he ruled our house with an iron hand. We didn’t play in the streets like other kids. We didn’t go to prom. Everything was music, music, music. We learned a lot but we hated him. He was like Joe Jackson. All we did was practice. He’d sit in the other room, and if he heard the music stop, he’d come in and hit somebody. If he heard the wrong note, he’d come in and hit somebody. He’d hit you in front of your girlfriend. And if you brought a friend over, he’d have no problem hitting them too.”humansofny“Everyone has a hard on for the union. They think we’re lazy or this or that, or maybe that there’s mafia influence, but honestly I just think they don’t like the little man having a voice. More and more construction sites are non-union these days. Nobody wants to pay $30 an hour plus benefits if an immigrant will do the same job for $14 an hour. And if everything goes non-union, I might as well go work at McDonald’s because I’ll be making the same amount of money. If the union collapses, I’m going to lose my pension. The way pensions work-- each generation pays for the previous generation. So without a new generation of union workers, there’s not going to be any money left for me. And I’ll have to work until I die.”humansofny“We started with Daddy, Munchie, and Stimpy. But one night I woke up and heard “bloop, bloop, bloop” and Munchie and Stimpy had died at the same time. So Daddy has been through a lot. He lost his whole family. But Daddy is strong. He’s been holding on since October and he’s lived through two long car rides. He also survived four days without eating because I bought him food that was too big for his mouth. So Daddy’s a survivor. But I’m going to get him a friend. I want him to love again."humansofny“I was the captain of my soccer team in college. I was the goalie. I’d have loved to play professionally but the timing wasn’t right. Major League Soccer didn’t start until I was 28. I did everything I could to keep playing though. I joined a Caribbean league in the Bronx. A Colombian league in Queens. I formed my own amateur team and we won ten summer championships in a row. I’m forty-eight now. I’m the oldest guy on the team so it takes a lot of extra work to stay in shape. I’ve had two knee surgeries. My reflexes are still there but the body is just slower to react. Most of the time I can compensate with my experience. I’ve seen everything one million times. I’ll know that ninety percent of the time in a given situation, the player will make a cross, and I can put myself in the best possible position. But the wisdom doesn’t compensate for the physical like it used to. Last year we lost a semifinal game because I was two inches short of a save. I can see the horizon rising.”humansofny“I’m trying to focus on my first year in college while my parents get divorced. They told me when I came home for Thanksgiving break. They’ve been together since they were my age. Dad wanted to be a successful artist. He was always the dreamer. He was the one that played games with me, while Mom was the one that helped me with my homework. I just don’t think that Mom felt she could grow with him anymore. She’d recently gone back to school and gotten a new job. Dad is still hoping that his art will get noticed. She thinks he needs to be realistic. He thinks she lost hope too early. Ever since they decided to separate, I noticed that a light seemed to dim in my dad. But a light seemed to grow in my mom.”humansofny(6/6) “I was institutionalized after the incident. They were giving me Celexa, Wellbutrin, Ambien to help me sleep, Minipress for nightmares, Sertraline, Klonopin. But none of the medication was really working. Finally they gave me convulsive shock therapy and that has helped some. I do feel better. I’m going to The Digital Film Academy now. I thought I’d try to get back into cinema. Recently I made my first film. It’s about a sergeant who failed at his job and caused another soldier to get injured. When he asks for forgiveness, the soldier asks him to prove his remorse by shooting himself in the leg. He agrees. But then it turns out that the gun isn’t loaded.”humansofny(5/6) “I didn’t really have time to reflect immediately after the ambush. I just ate dinner and tried to go to sleep because we had another patrol the next day. But I’ve had nightmares ever since. I lie in bed and replay the situation over and over. I wasn’t the leader that I should have been. I failed under pressure and somebody got hurt. I have no confidence left. I can’t take a leadership position of any kind. I tried to stay in the army after I came home from Afghanistan. But one night we were doing a training exercise. Our objective was a forward passage of lines— meaning that two platoons were supposed to pass through each other in the dark. But everything was going wrong. Our platoon leader got lost and I had to take over. Soldiers were all over the place and the mission was failing. I was messing up. It was happening to me all over again and the pressure was too much. So I just ran into a bush and took out my knife and started slashing my wrists as hard and as fast as I could.”humansofny(4/6) “My last tour was in Afghanistan. That was the bad one. One day we were on a foot patrol, and we were using a metal detector to sweep the road for IEDs. I was a staff sergeant but I’d temporarily taken over as platoon sergeant, so this was really the first time I’d been in a position of leadership. We came across a copper wire stretched over the road and traced it back to some explosives. While we waited for the disposal team, we came under fire. It was an ambush. I thought I’d remember my training but instead I just froze. I messed it up. I was supposed to return fire, flank, and keep good radio communication. But all I felt was horror and I froze. I just got pinned down and bullets were kicking up dust around me and I was just waiting to take one in the head and die. All that training and drilling meant nothing. One of my soldiers got hit by an RPG and was severely injured. I was supposed to be the one in charge, but I froze and did nothing. When the firing subsided, we grabbed our injured man and started driving back down the road. I’ll never forget seeing the villagers laughing at us while we drove away.”humansofny(3/6) “I got blown up once. We hit an IED while driving to pick up another truck that had broken down. The moment it happened, I just remember feeling really angry. The truck rose into the air and my head hit the ceiling and I remember thinking that this was the end and they’d got me. There was a big rush of adrenaline. When everything came to a stop and we realized that we were still alive, it felt awesome. All of us gathered around the truck and began taking pictures. Everyone was smiling and laughing. I didn’t realize until later how much it affected me. I don’t like to drive anymore. If I ever hit a pothole or a speed bump, I panic.”humansofny(2/6) “My first tour was Iraq. I think during training I imaged that war would be like the movies. I had zero experience so I was picturing something like Platoon or Full Metal Jacket. But 99% of the time it’s boring and you don’t do anything productive. I was a cavalry scout, so we’d go out in front of the infantry and get an eye on the battlefield. Mainly it involved just sitting at an observation post. The first time I experienced combat, I was actually in a garage helping fix a large truck. We came under indirect fire. I could hear the guns around us and for the first time I realized that the war is real and people are trying to kill us. Honestly, it was pretty cool. It was a huge adrenaline rush. It was the highest I’ve ever felt in my life. It made me feel like my job had been validated.”humansofny(1/6) “I joined the army because I wanted to do something that mattered. I’d only ever worked at jobs like McDonald’s and Party City. I’d just gotten a degree in cinema from Stony Brook, but I wasn’t sure what to do with that. So I enlisted. The training mostly emphasized patriotism and discipline. Basically your job is to kill people, so I think the goal is just train and drill until everything is second nature and doesn’t require any thinking. Not like you have much opportunity to think about it anyway. You get dropped off in a faraway country and there’s no way back.”humansofny"I work for a plumbing company. You probably wouldn't guess by looking at me, but I talk about toilets all day long. I mainly work in sales. But if the toilets are broken, I'll handle that too. You should see the reaction I get from a group of guys when I tell them that I'm here to fix the toilets."humansofny“I’ve always liked to do nice things for strangers. I worked in the mail room at my college dorm, and whenever I emailed a package notification, I’d always add a little something extra. Like an awesome shark pic. Or a link to Japanese jazz. Lately I’ve been doing this thing where I buy really weird antique post cards, write poems on them, and mail them to random people I find in the white pages. The first time I sent one, I added a full-page disclaimer because I was worried some old person would think it was from ISIS and call the cops. I basically wrote: ‘Don’t worry. It’s art. Everything’s cool. You won’t be hearing from me again.’”humansofny“I’ve had some bad luck with living arrangements. I’m on my seventh apartment in three years. My first place in New York was a room in a warehouse with a semi-translucent piece of plastic as a wall. I found it on Craigslist. I shouldn’t have moved in but the guy told me he had three other people waiting so I panicked. My neighbor was an eighty-year-old photographer who sat around in his underwear all day and either watched violent porn or really sexualized war movies-- I'm not sure. I got out of there after a few months, and found some new roommates who accepted me on the basis of a tarot card reading. That place wasn’t too bad, actually. But the lease ended and I moved into a place with no heat or hot water. Then the landlord was caught siphoning power off a nearby streetlamp. I did get to go to housing court that time, which was kinda cool I guess. My next apartment had smoke alarms that randomly went off at four in the morning. Then I lived with my girlfriend for awhile but we broke up, so I started sleeping on couches. But I’m in a really good place now. I almost don’t want to say this, because it sounds like I’m bragging, but there’s a washer and dryer in the apartment.”humansofny“God is a strange man. Sometimes I feel like he’s an alien watching me from the sun. When I’m alone, he talks to me. He made me psycho about the moon. I was sitting at the wounds of the Twin Towers and he had me screaming Lady Gaga at the moon in weird strange tones. He doesn’t care. He’s toying with me. He wakes me up every day. He turned me into a St. Louis Cardinals baseball fan. One time he had me at Central Park Zoo acting like a seal. Yesterday he made me spend my last dollar on cheese doodles when I really wanted a butter roll. He almost made me a suicide case. He made me jump on the railroad tracks outside the mental health facility.”humansofny(4/4) “I applied for a maintenance job here at the Harlem Commonwealth Council. When I showed up for my interview, they sent me straight to the president’s office. His name was Dr. Tait. He’s a very business-oriented person but he’s also versatile. The whole time he had me feeling like I was talking to a real ‘OG.’ I told him everything. I just gave it to him raw. And at the end, he said to me: ‘I like your fucking style.’ I couldn’t believe it. The president said ‘fucking.’ He told me: ‘I know people make mistakes. But right now, the only thing that matters is who you want to become and how we can help you get there.’ Then he walked me out of his office and told the interviewer: ‘I like this guy.’ And that was it.”humansofny(3/4) “Pops never wanted us to be a part of it, so any involvement was our own. I started out stealing weed from him when I was fifteen. Selling it was easy. If I had it, people wanted it. Eventually I started buying my own shit. Me and some other cats set up on 111th and 5th and some nights we’d make $10,000 between four people. But it didn’t last long. We were under surveillance. I ended up going to prison three different times. The first time I was young, and I was calling all the older cats ‘OG.’ But by the third time I went to prison, everyone was calling me ‘OG.’ But I didn’t feel like an ‘OG.’ Real ‘OG’s’ go to Florida and get fat. So I grinded my way back to being a normal person. And that’s not easy to do in this country once you get your stripes. After I was released, I got my GED. I got a job working maintenance and enrolled in college. My parole officer was loving it. She took me off probation after six months. She thought I was the golden child.”humansofny(2/4) “We didn’t really have any struggles. We had all the newest things: color television, Atari, those big ass cellphones. My dad had a limousine service that drove us to school. And we always went to private Catholic schools. I’d come back wearing my uniform and all my friends would make fun of me. I even had a horse on Long Island named Apples. Each of my siblings had a horse. Mine liked apples so I named him fucking Apples. That was our life. But then one day my parents decided to go legit. I was seventeen or eighteen at the time. They sat us down one Saturday afternoon at the big glass table in the living room. You know how Caucasian people do Sunday dinner? No disrespect, but that was Saturday afternoon for us. They sat us down and told us they were stopping everything. And they did. No more drinking, no more drugging. They sold all the businesses. Both of them worked regular jobs for the next 25 years. My dad became a train driver and my mom became a drug counselor. They told us they wanted to set an example for us. They told us they didn’t want us getting involved in drugs. But that was all we’d ever known.”humansofny(1/4) “My parents were big in the hustling game. It wasn’t like it is now. Now it’s a bunch of kids on the corner trying to get sneakers. In the early eighties it was a group of older dudes— just some local cats who got together and decided: ‘This is how we’re going to eat.’ Nobody was coming to our house to buy a dime bag. Everyone who came over was buying weight. Those were the people who we’d see all the time as kids. They were like our family. They’d give us a hundred bucks to go to the store and tell us to keep the change. It was all very friendly and civil. There were even three police officers that would always come over and smoke-- two white guys and a Spanish guy. They’d sit down in our living room at a big glass table, and my dad would come out from the back and hit them up with envelopes. Pops looked out for the whole block. He’d throw block parties. He’d organize bus trips for all the neighborhood kids. He’d take everyone to Great Adventures and pay for the whole thing. And at Christmastime, our doors would stay open. There would be a huge pile of presents and kids from the block would come inside and take whatever they wanted. It used to make me jealous because it seemed like they got more than we did.”humansofny“I identify as being queer. I also identify as being a social worker, a metal head, a goth, sort of a pagan, and maybe a witch. But I think that I most strongly identify as being a nerd. Nerds have the least amount of rules. For the most part, they don’t care about any of that other stuff. They’re just excited about the things that they’re excited about and they’re happy to share it with you.”humansofnyAs I’ve said so many times before, the community that has grown around this page is a special group of people. In addition to the people who follow this page, so many of you choose to routinely engage and participate in the community. You’ve created such a unique and supportive culture in the comment section. And you’ve donated nearly $5 million to our fundraisers in 2015. I think the HONY community is largely composed of people who try to choose compassion over cynicism, and that’s why we’ve been able to accomplish so much this year. In short—this is a group of people who ‘shows up.’ So thanks so much for showing up last year.humansofny"Life during the week sucks. But when we're together, we're good."humansofny(3/3) “I had one student who came to my school as an ‘emergency transfer.’ He was fourteen when he came into my class. He’d kick, bite, scream. He’d even pee his pants just to take them off and throw them at you. I taught him for several years. Recently he graduated, and to celebrate I took him to see The Minions. He stood in line to get his popcorn. He sat still through the entire movie. He was able to ‘be there.’ And that’s what gives me the most satisfaction. Getting my students to the point where they can be in this world.”humansofny(2/3) “Even in special education, our curriculum is based on Common Core standards. I’ll have to teach about seasons to a child who doesn’t know his own name. I’m expected to teach To Kill A Mockingbird to a classroom full of nonverbal students, some of whom may be wearing diapers and haven’t learned their ABCs. I think it’s insulting to tell students what they’re going to learn, regardless of their abilities and needs. But I try to work some magic and design a lesson plan where everyone in the class can take something away from the story. For the least advanced students, we just use To Kill A Mockingbird to practice the alphabet. Then I’m also expected to teach Algebra. I try my best using lots of velcro and lamination, but I can’t say that many of my students have ever learned how to solve for x. We spend so much energy on learning how to sit still. I think special populations should be focused more on vocational training like filling out forms and budgeting money—things that will give them confidence and prepare them for independence. But I keep my mouth shut and do my best to work within the system. When I first began teaching, my mentor told me: ‘If there’s anything about the system that you want to fight, just make sure it’s the hill you want to die on.’”humansofny(1/3) “I got my first classroom when I was twenty-two. I was so young at the time. I think I first went into special education imagining that I’d be hanging out with kids all day. I’ve been teaching for ten years now. Special education is a lot more exhausting than I imagined. It’s like a performance. You need to be ‘on’ the entire day. You need to be strict. You need to always say the right thing and respond in just the right way. I do enjoy it, but in a different way than I imagined. Many of my students come from broken places. Some are homeless or live in foster homes. So the gains come slowly and can be difficult to track. But I get joy from seeing my students want to learn. It’s very fulfilling for me if I can inspire my students to want to read a little better, or get a job, or be kinder to their classmate. It can be very tough sometimes to feel like you’re making a difference. I remember during one of my first years, I was teaching a group of nonverbal students how to take turns, and everything went to hell and the students started screaming and beating their heads against the table. Then my best-behaved student turned and bit me. I thought: ‘I failed. I made things worse.’ But anytime I feel myself burning out, or losing patience, or not giving it my all, I pull back and do some meditation. Because if I’m not fully present and trying my hardest to make a difference, I should just quit.”humansofny“I’ve got him on a different path then I went down. I ain’t have no father. So I had to look to the streets for a father figure. But hopefully he’ll never have to do that because I’m there all the time. I stay at home while the wifey is at work. I don’t even like to leave him with a babysitter. And I spoil him. When I was growing up, we didn’t get much for Christmas. We’d maybe get a fake plastic toy and a knitted sweater with a Christmas tree on it. I wanted the Atari like everyone else though, so I had to find a way to get it myself. Let’s just say I did ‘odd jobs.’ I’d bring home an Atari and just make up stories. I’d tell my mom that my friends gave it to me. He’ll never have to do that stuff though. He’s got the life. You should have seen his Christmas. He got scooters, train sets, puzzles, mad cars—even a stocking full of money. He’s already got a savings account.”humansofny“It’s our first date. We met on Fire Island. I wasn’t even planning on going out that night. I’d already drank half a bottle of Johnny Black so I was just going to stay in and read my Chelsea Handler book, but my friends promised to bake me cookies if I went to the club with them. So I went to buy three bags of cookie dough, and when I finally got to the club all my friends were making out with somebody, so I was like ‘this sucks,’ and I just started dancing by myself and eating the cookie dough. Then I saw him by the DJ booth and we made eye contact so I went over and started sharing my cookie dough. We never actually spoke. Then a few months later I ran into him on the subway.”humansofny”We met at a Burning Man boat party. I was tripping acid, and he came over and asked if I was OK. I thought he was a cop, so I said: ‘Yeah, I’m fine. Get away from me.’”humansofnyMerry Christmas! Yesterday we raised nearly $500,000 in financial assistance for the refugee families we met during the month of December. As of now, this is enough to provide each family with about $40,000. That is a large amount for anyone, but when you are starting from zero, it is all the money in the world. These families lost everything in the war. Most have multiple children and significant medical needs, so our assistance will significantly ease the stress of starting over. Thanks so much to everyone who gave yesterday. The fundraiser will run for one more day, so anyone else who would like to donate may do so by following the link in my bio.humansofnyMost of the refugee families that we profiled this month have made their way to America. And as the initial excitement fades, they are faced with the stark reality of starting from zero in a new land. Being an immigrant is very difficult. Being a refugee is even worse. Most of them lost everything in the war. And because they were kind enough to share their stories with us, I thought that we could help carry a bit of their load this Christmas.

Money we raise over the next 48 hours will be divided evenly among the families that we profiled, including Aya’s. Let’s use this Christmas to give back to the refugees who so openly shared their painful stories with us. Even if we could provide a few thousand dollars to each family—that money will stretch a long way.
This Christmas, consider helping us give the gift of a fresh start. Link in bio.humansofnyHe pulled me aside, and said: “I’m taking her on a boat ride tonight and I’m going to read her a poem I wrote, and then give her a promise ring. When I met her, there were things going on in my life that would have made any other woman walk away. But I told her everything, and nothing changed her mind about me. I don’t have any money. I don’t have a great job. But she still sees so much in me. I’d marry her tomorrow if I could, but I’m only nineteen and we’re both working students, so I can’t quite do that yet. But I wanted to give her a promise ring to let her know that I planned on being with her forever. Eventually I’ll get her an engagement ring too. But I think the promise ring is even more important. Because an engagement ring is just my promise to get married. But the promise ring is my promise that we’ll be together forever.”humansofny“This would happen to me today. That’s fucked up. I broke up with my boyfriend on Friday. I filed my Obamacare last night at midnight. I got four hours of sleep. I left this morning without taking a shower. I didn’t put on a dress. I just put this pink thing on my head so I wouldn’t look so tired. And now I’ve just finished working and I’m heading home to eat Chinese food. And you want to take my picture. Can I at least put on some lipstick?”humansofny“I stayed in an abusive relationship for too long because I didn’t think I deserved any better. I finally ended it, but afterward I started second guessing myself. I began to feel lonely and I thought: ‘As bad as it was, at least you weren’t alone.’ A big challenge has been learning to be OK with being by myself. One day I may meet someone else, but in the meantime it’s just me, so I’ve got to do what’s best for me. I decided that if there’s something I want to do, and I can’t find anyone to come with me, I’m going to do it anyway. Tonight I’m going to see a bagpipe concert at Madison Presbyterian Church. I’ve even been on several vacations by myself. I went to Miami recently. It’s fun during the day because you can lie on the beach and you’re surrounded by people. But at night it’s a little tougher because it’s quieter and darker. And without all the noise around you, you sort of realize it’s just you.”humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“We’re process nerds. People don't realize how important it is for refugee applicants to get every single detail right. One misstep can lead to dire results. We think Aya is in a very vulnerable situation right now, so we’re going to get her appeal filed as quickly as possible. Luckily Betsy and I like to think we are the fastest people in the world at filing these types of appeals. Unfortunately, Aya's case is not uncommon. These refugee rejections can be based on extremely tangential circumstances. We’ve had clients get turned away because of a crime committed by a distant relative that they’ve never even met. One client's case was put on indefinite hold because of his connection to a childhood neighbor that he hadn’t spoken to in twenty years. Bureaucratic decisions like these can exclude deserving refugees and leave them at risk of further harm. International Refugee Assistance Project has been very successful with our appeals. The fact that we have one million signatures on Aya’s behalf is really going to help. Once we can elevate the case to a higher profile, it will be reviewed at a higher level with more careful scrutiny. We have so many people watching over this case. And after interviewing Aya about her family history, I’m feeling very good about this. We'll keep everyone informed every step of the way.” This is Lara ‘The Terminator’* Finkbeiner. Along with Betsy ‘The Hammer’* Fisher, she will be spearheading Aya's case. Betsy is represented by the intercom because she is working from Minneapolis. *Nicknames assigned by me and may or may not be in common usage.humansofnyBefore we move on from Aya's story, I want to introduce you to our allies who will be handling the next phase. The International Refugee Assistance Project is a refugee advocacy organization that organizes lawyers and law students across 27 law schools and 60 law firms. Last year, they turned a one million dollar budget into ten million dollars in legal services to refugees. They are very good at what they do, and have helped resettle thousands of refugees. Appeals filed with their assistance have a success rate many times the normal average. We had a long meeting today, and everyone is very energized and optimistic about Aya's appeal. After conducting long interviews with Aya, the team thinks that Aya "is remarkable" and "has a very strong case." Adding, "We also love George." Aya's new legal team is headed by Becca 'Mama Grizzly'* Heller, who founded IRAP along with fellow students from Yale Law School. She was accompanied to the meeting by 'Baby Anna' Heller, who took her first car ride today. Mama Grizzly* will be firing all her guns, and tells me that because of Aya's vulnerable situation, she will be expediting the case to the maximum of her abilities. *Nickname assigned by me and may not be in common usagehumansofnyYesterday was a “rest day” for me. It’s been an emotional week. Telling Aya’s story was tough enough. But the hardest part for me was watching a traumatized young woman release her story into a world that’s becoming more and more afraid of her with each passing day. It was such an act of courage for Aya to tell her story in this climate. And as I read some of the comments on her story, I couldn’t help but wonder if I was doing her more harm than good.
There is so much fear in the world right now. And politicians know that they must win the votes of frightened people. And with their rhetoric, they are condoning prejudice in a way that I’ve never seen in my lifetime. Since September 11th, forty-five people have been killed in the United States by Islamic extremists. This includes the recent attacks in California. Even though these attacks were carried out by only a handful of violent individuals, they are being used as a license to vilify millions of Americans. That is wrong and that is dangerous.
And Aya, who is one of the most beautiful people I’ve ever known, had to absorb a good deal of that hatred this week. I’m sure this added to the trauma she’s already been through. But every step of the way I gave her the option to stop telling her story. And at every step, she gave me permission to continue. And I thank her for that.
And I want to thank all of you. Because I noticed something this week. I noticed that the comments on Aya’s story always began very positively. But as some of the posts were shared thousands of times, and spread to newsfeeds beyond the HONY community, the tone of the comments deteriorated. It became much more prejudiced. And that highlighted the power of this community to me. The people who follow this page did something very important this week. You allowed a traumatized young Muslim woman to share her story in a supportive environment. And there aren't many places right now where that is possible. So in your own way, you provided Aya with a place of refuge.
Thank you for that.
And thanks to everyone who stood up this week to tell Aya: “I’m not afraid of you.” Anyone who still wishes to sign Aya’s petition, you can find the link in bio.humansofny(11/11) “Six months ago my father disappeared. He left one morning and didn’t come home. That morning he answered the phone one time, and he said: ‘I’m fine, Aya. I’ll be home soon.’ And he never answered the phone again. You can’t imagine what this has done to my mind. I don’t know if he is dead. I don’t know if he remarried. I know nothing. All day and night I must imagine what has happened. I haven’t even told my younger sisters. I tell them that Daddy went to Istanbul to work but he will be home. They wouldn’t be able to take it. I still post old photos to his Facebook page so it seems like he exists. But it’s been six months, and they want to know why he hasn’t called. I promise he’s a good person, really. I love him so much. He loved me too. He always told me that he was proud of me and I was going to be something in life. But how could he leave me like this? How could he leave all of this on my shoulders? I’m twenty years old. I can’t handle all of this by myself. I don’t need him to work, or make money, but I need him. I need my Daddy. I can’t do this alone much longer. I’m getting tired. I’m a warrior and I’m strong and I’ve fought so much but even warriors get tired. I’ve been having crazy thoughts lately. I don’t want to do it. I’ve been through so much. I wanted to go to school and be something in life. But I can’t do this much longer. I’m alone here and I’m in a very bad place. I feel very scared. I never wanted to be the traditional Arabic girl who marries her cousin and spends all day in the house. I’ve worked so hard to escape it all. And I know it’s dangerous. But if things don’t change for me, I think I’ll have to go back to Iraq.” --------------------------------------------------As of now, 4% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. It would only take 6% of the community to reach a million signatures. Please consider adding your voice. And if you know someone else who might care about Aya’s story, please consider sharing. Link in bio.humansofny(10/11) “It was like a nightmare. I fell on the floor and started screaming: “No, no, no!’ I cried for days. I couldn’t go to work because my eyes were so red. I went to the hospital and they had to give me medicine to calm me down. Security related reasons? What can that mean? They don’t know my family. I know my family. My father was a train driver. Every male in our country had to do military service for six months when they were young, but he only did the radar. He swore to me that he’d never even touched a gun in his life. Our family loved America. My father always told me about America. He made us go talk to American soldiers during the war. Other people were afraid of Americans, but he told us they were here to help us and not to be afraid of them. He told us that America was a place where so many different people lived in peace. So many religions. So many communities. We loved America! Every day we watched Oprah. My father promised me that one day we would go on her show and meet her. We even wrote about Oprah for our assignments in school. Why would we ever hurt America? All of my dreaming ended on the day this letter arrived. I became a person without hope.” --------------------------------------------------- As of now, 3.5% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. It would only take 6% of the community to reach a million signatures. Please consider adding your voice. Link in bio.humansofny(9/11) “We applied for resettlement in America. We did all our paperwork. We had two different interviews in Istanbul. Then we waited for a very long time. For months I kept checking the website, but it always said: 'Case pending.' Then one night my friend called me, very excited. It was midnight. She told us there had been an update on the website. I ran to the computer, entered our case number, and it said ‘Case accepted!’ I zoomed in on the word 'accepted' and my hand started shaking. I screamed to my family: ‘Turn off the TV! We’re going to America!’ It was like a wedding. We turned on the music. We started dancing and crying and kissing each other. A new life! The United States! We couldn’t believe it! Over the next few weeks I spent so much time on the computer. I searched for schools for my brother and sisters. I found the university I wanted to study in. I found a hospital for my mother. I was searching for jobs for my father. I had everything planned. I even found extra clothes for George because I thought it might be cold. In the evenings I’d sit with my sisters and help them plan what their rooms would look like. And Christmas time was coming. We thought we would go to New York during Christmas time! We were even planning to see the big tree! For two months we dreamed like this. Then a letter came in the mail.” --------------------------------------------------
As of now, over 3% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. It would only take 6% of the community to reach a million signatures. Please consider adding your voice. Link in bio.humansofny(8/11) “My years in Turkey have been the hardest four years of my life. When we first arrived from Syria, we couldn’t communicate with anyone. I had no friends. If we wanted an egg from the store, we had to make chicken sounds. I paid for everything in this apartment by working as an interpreter for an NGO. We started at a zero and I built us up to a six, all by myself, and I’m very proud of that. But we can go no further without citizenship. I can’t get a degree. I can’t work any other job. Turkey has taken many refugees and we should be thankful for that. And the people here were nice to us at first. Our neighbors brought us rice and food. But then more refugees came. And more. And then everything changed. Now people shout at us in the streets. They tell us to leave. But we have nowhere to go. A man recently started sending me messages on Facebook, saying: ‘Get out!’ I didn’t even know him! Why me? Why did he choose me? We’ve had to switch apartments four times because our landlord decided that Arabic people are no longer allowed. I’ve been hit by a car. My sister got hit in the face at school and lost two teeth, and now her vision is bad in one eye. Being a refugee is really hard. They blame us for everything. They blame us for no jobs. For crowded streets. For crime. They say that we are the reason for everything bad. And if war ever comes to Turkey, we’ll be the first to die. Because they’ll blame us for that too.” --------------------------------------------------As of now, 2.5% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. It would only take 6% of the community to reach a million signatures. Please consider adding your voice. Link in bio.humansofny(7/11) “George is my refugee dog. We’ve been through many horrible things together. I found him in Baghdad when he was just a puppy. My father and I were driving down the road and I saw some teenagers holding George by the ears and hitting him. I jumped out of the car and begged them to stop and gave them all the money I had. George was so thin and dirty, and the doctor said he was very sick and he’d only survive if I took perfect care of him. And look at him now! He’s been with me through Iraq, Syria, Turkey… everything. Whenever he sees me crying, he jumps in my lap and uses his paw to pull my hands away from my face.” ----------------------
As of now, 2% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. It would only take 6% the community to reach a million signatures. Please consider adding your voice. Link in bio.humansofny(6/11) “I was fourteen when I arrived in Syria. Those were the best two years of my life. The first day we arrived, I made my father take me to school so I could register. I was doing so well in school. I got very good grades. I got so many awards and my teachers kept telling me that I had a very bright future. They told me: ‘One day Aya, you will be the voice of refugees.’ On the weekend I was volunteering to help other refugees. I organized an entire chorus of refugees. Things were going so well. My father was working as a driver. We were very comfortable. Then war came to Syria. It began for me as a bomb threat at our school. Then people began killing each other in the street. I was studying one afternoon, and I looked out the window, and a man smashed another man’s head with a stone. Right in front of me. Our landlord told us: ‘I am leaving the country. Everyone must go.’ So again we became refugees. We put everything we had into six bags, and we left.” --------------------------------------- As of now, 1.5% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. Please consider adding your voice. Link in bio.humansofny(5/11) “Our house in Baghdad was located near a military compound, and the militia officers wanted it for themselves. They sent three men to our house to order us to leave. When my father refused, they mailed us an envelope with bullets inside. My father was working as a library security guard during this time. The militia went to the library and murdered my father’s coworker—thinking it was him. My father became very scared when he heard this. He told us we had to pack all our clothes into bags and leave Iraq immediately. It was the middle of the night. I didn’t want to go. I didn’t want to leave my bedroom or my school or my friends. I wasn’t even allowed to say goodbye to anyone. Nobody knew we were leaving. When the taxi arrived, I held onto the doorframe and screamed that I wasn’t going. My father pulled me away and told me that we were going to live in a better place. That night we drove to Syria.” -------------------------------------------------As of now, 1% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. Please consider adding your voice. Link in bio.humansofnyWe’re currently in the middle of a series about a young Iraqi refugee named Aya. As many of you know, Aya’s story does not yet have a happy ending. After years of hardship, her application for resettlement in the United States was rejected. She has just begun an appeal process. As we learn the rest of the story, if you feel inclined to lend your voice in support of her appeal, I have created a petition for that purpose. It’s not a petition, actually. We’re not asking that any action be taken. It’s an invitation. It’s an invitation for President Obama to join us in saying: ‘Aya is important to us. We do not believe she is a threat. And we think she deserves to be here.’ When I read the language of our invitation to Aya last night on Skype, she began sobbing. She has been carrying her story alone for years, and she had almost given up hope. And now someone cares. Aya is sleeping now. But when she wakes up tomorrow, I hope she sees just how many of us care. Please consider becoming a Friend of Aya. Link in bio.humansofny(4/11) “These things are very hard for me to remember, but I try not to cry because I want to be strong for my mother. It was hardest for her because she had children. During the war she had to worry about herself, but she also had to worry about us. It made her very ill. Her blood pressure is very high now. Her hand shakes. She has bladder problems. But she is my hero because she always protected us. One time when my father wasn’t home, a strange man entered our house. But my mother pretended to be a man and screamed downstairs in a very deep voice. And she saved us.” (Gaziantep, Turkey)humansofny(3/11) “After Miriam died, I began to have silly thoughts. I thought that I was supposed to be President of the World. It sounds funny now but I was just ten years old. I thought that if I was really clever in school and got all the best marks, I would become a leader and I could stop the war. I could just tell everyone to love each other and they would listen to me. I taught myself English during this time. I would listen to American songs and translate every word. I’d watch Hollywood movies. I’d practice talking to myself in front of the mirror every night. I’d even give gum to American soldiers so I could have conversations with them. I thought maybe if I just concentrated on my studies, I could avoid the war. It worked for two years. But one day I was driving with my father and a car bomb exploded ahead of us. I got out of the car because I thought that maybe I could save the people but there were hands and heads in the street. Everyone was dead. It was like a horror movie. It was like Titanic but it was really happening and it was in the street.”humansofny(2/11) “This is a photo of me right before the war came. Maybe my parents knew the war was coming, but they didn’t tell me. I wouldn’t have understood. I didn’t even know the meaning of war. Bombs started falling all around us. We lived very near one of Saddam’s castles. My mother told us: ‘It will be very loud, but nothing bad will happen to us. We will all be here together.’ Many houses in our neighborhood were destroyed, but I’d close my ears and sing songs whenever the bombs came close. In the cartoon shows, the good always wins, so I thought that we were good and nothing would happen to us. Then one day I heard a big sound and I saw that my best friend Miriam’s house had been destroyed. We walked to school together every day. I went to see if she was OK and I saw Miriam on the ground. She didn’t have any legs and she was screaming and I can still hear that sound now. They pulled me away but I saw everything. I don’t think it was good for a child to see this.” (Gaziantep, Turkey)humansofny(1/11) “When I was a baby I came very close to dying. I’m not sure how to say the name of the disease in English, but all the water in my body started to dry. I couldn’t gain weight and I became very weak. This was during Saddam’s time, and the hospital staff told my mother that in two days they would euthanize me. But my mother refused to accept this. She called everywhere and found a clinic in Jordan that said they could give me treatment. There was an American doctor there who saved my life. We stayed in Jordan until I was seven, and then we moved back to Baghdad. One day I was playing in our garden and I heard very loud noises and the sky was really red and everyone was screaming. It’s very hard to describe. It was like there was blood in the sky.” (Gaziantep, Turkey)humansofnyYesterday I got an email from Edward Norton, asking if he could host a fundraiser for the scientist in Tuesday’s story. I said: "Of course Edward Norton. Also, you were awesome in Birdman. Also, let’s hang out." - I’ve rarely been shaken by a story more than the scientist’s. His life had been so tragic, but throughout the entire interview, he kept returning to his desire to help mankind. He didn’t want to die before making a contribution to humanity, and he felt that he was running out of time. While listening to him, I kept imagining how difficult it would be for him to focus on any sort of research while starting a new life in America. Despite his lofty accomplishments, he might have to take whatever job (or two) he could get just to keep up with rent. Hopefully this fundraiser will change that, insuring that he can focus his amazing mind on his dream of changing the world. Please consider donating. LINK IN BIO.humansofnyI am going to do one last book signing this year at the main branch of the New York Public Library on Tuesday, December 15th. My friend Helene helps manage the bookshop, and told me that if she sells 300 HONY Stories books by Christmas, she is going to reward herself with a vacation to India. I told her that I’d do a signing if she overcame her fear of photography and posed for the announcement post, to which she replied: ‘Oh God.’ I also told her that she was required to wear a Christmas sweater at the event, to which she replied: ‘I’m Jewish.’ So if you’d like to meet Helene, who will be wearing a sweater vaguely suggestive of the holiday season, come to the main library between 3 pm and 7pm on December 15th. I will also be there signing books. All proceeds go directly to benefit the library.humansofny(4/4) “We even tried to stay in our home after my father was arrested. I wanted to go right away, but my father was too afraid because he thought we’d be stopped at a checkpoint and he’d be taken again. But two months later, my son was hit by a motorcycle outside of our house. His face was burned and bruised and his leg was broken. There were no more ambulances in our town, so I had to bring him to the hospital myself. When I got there, it was empty. There were no doctors left. I had to wrap his leg myself with the help of an anesthesiologist, but I messed it up. I knew then that we had to leave. When we get to America, the leg will need to be broken again.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(3/4) “Ten days passed and we hadn’t heard anything. So we were starting to lose hope. Then one night there was a knock on the door. We didn’t have electricity in the house so it was very dark. I was very scared. I thought the soldiers were coming back for me. When I opened the door, I didn’t even recognize him at first. He was very dirty and barefoot. I thought he was from the street. Finally I realized that it was him and I started crying and screaming: 'My father is home! My father is home!' But he didn’t say a word. He didn’t want to talk for a long time.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(2/4) “While they were searching the basement, some shooting began on the streets outside, and the soldiers grew very nervous. I tried to make friendly conversation. I wasn’t worried because there was nothing in our house to find. But they grew very cold. They said: ‘We can’t trust you.’ They grabbed me and led me to a van. I told them: ‘I’m an old man. I’m not a threat.’ But they didn’t listen. On our way to the prison, they kept stopping on the street and collecting more people. They blindfolded me when we arrived and they beat me very badly. Then they put me with seventy other people in a room smaller than this one. It was very cold because it was December, and I was barefoot because I’d lost my slippers. There was nothing but a hole in the ground for a toilet. We all had to face the wall. Anyone who looked toward the door would be shot. We stayed there for ten days. I barely slept or ate. There was no room to even sit down. Occasionally a guard would throw bread through the window for people to grab. I thought I’d eventually be executed. But on the eleventh day, they called my name, and released me out into the cold to find my way home.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(1/4) “We saw on the television that other countries in the region were having political problems, but they always seemed to fix themselves. So when people began to demonstrate in our town, we didn’t think much of it. Then the government began to crack down by arresting people. People were disappearing. So I made a point of being very non-political. I avoided the areas where demonstrations were occurring. I wouldn’t even associate with people who I knew were political. But one night a group of soldiers came to our house and asked for our IDs. They seemed very nice. They were polite. So we felt very relaxed. My father brought them downstairs to examine the basement. We didn’t see him again for eleven days.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(3/3) “They are too young now, but one day I will tell them about Syria. They are already asking questions. The oldest one overhears us talking on the phone to our family back in Syria. She asks us: ‘If our aunt is hungry, why can’t she just buy bread?’” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(2/3) “Life had been going so well for me before the war came. I’m a driver, and I’d just saved enough money to buy a new car. I was starting a family. My father had given us a house and we’d bought all new furniture. But one day a mortar destroyed a wall of our house. It was too dangerous to stay. I left because of the children. The years we’ve spent as refugees have been very tough, but we’ve just learned that we’re going to Detroit, Michigan. I have a brother-in-law who says it’s very nice there. He says he is allowed to work legally and officially. So hopefully I can start driving again. He says there is heating in the houses and the water is warm when you shower. And he says that America cares about children. He tells me that there is a bus that picks them up and takes them to school.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(1/3) “Sometimes I sit by myself and I blame myself for leaving Syria. I used to own my own business. Now I’m working as an employee in a dairy shop. I have nothing here. When I feel nostalgic about Syria, I remember the smell of jasmine in my back garden. I remember my four best friends. We were always laughing and joking together. On Friday mornings during the summer, we’d wake up early to drive to the lake and swim. In the winter we’d play cards and smoke the water pipe. But I have to remind myself that Syria isn’t there anymore. Our old town doesn’t even have any food. A bag of salt costs $50 now. And all my friends are gone. One of them is in Egypt, one is in Turkey, one is in Lebanon, and the other was killed by a sniper.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofnyLast night President @barackobama wrote a very sweet welcome note to the scientist in Tuesday's story.humansofnyI want to take a quick pause from the Syrian American series to announce that we will once again be doing HONY for the Holidays this year. (And by we, I mean Erin, who does 100% of the organizing.) There are many people in New York City who, due to circumstances beyond their control, will have nowhere to celebrate Christmas. I know because I was one of those people when I first moved to New York. I just didn’t have the money to go home. It’s not a good feeling to be alone on Christmas. One of the worst feelings, actually.
BUT DO NOT FEAR. There are plenty of families who have room in their heart, and an extra spot at the table, for one more. And we’ll help you find them. Over the past four years, HONY for the Holidays (100% Erin) has matched hundreds of people. And much joy was had by all. So please, don’t let shyness keep you from having a place to go on the holidays. Get in touch.
And please, please, please, if you think you may be able to host one more in your home, consider volunteering as a host. Extensive effort goes into learning about each guest, and matching them with hosts. Nobody’s contact info will be shared before both sides agree to a match, and everyone will be well acquainted before the big day. So please consider giving the gift of companionship this Christmas.
Please email: honyfortheholidays@gmail.com
Unfortunately we are only have the capability to match people in New York City.
HOSTS: If you have a place at the table, write HOST in the subject line. Please include how many people you can accommodate, your NYC neighborhood, and a little bit about the gathering you will hosting.
GUESTS: If you'd like a place at a table, write GUEST in the subject line. Please include your approximate location and a little bit about yourself!
Thanks, everyone. Happy Holidays!humansofny“Fevers are very dangerous for him because of his condition. One night he got a fever and there was nothing I could do. The doctors and the pharmacists had all fled our village. It was too dangerous to even go outside. We didn’t even have a phone. All I could do was take his clothes off and wipe him with cold water. He shook all night. At one point his eyes rolled into the back of his head. He was like a body without a soul. I cried all night. The fever broke in the morning but that was enough for me. Three days later we went to Turkey. I’m hoping there will be a surgery that can help him in America. He is very attached to me. He cries whenever I leave him. I just hope one day he’ll be able to tell me exactly what he wants.” (Gaziantep, Turkey)humansofny(7/7) “I still think I have a chance to make a difference in the world. I have several inventions that I’m hoping to patent once I get to America. One of my inventions is being used right now on the Istanbul metro to generate electricity from the movement of the train. I have sketches for a plane that can fly for 48 hours without fuel. I’ve been thinking about a device that can predict earthquakes weeks before they happen. I just want a place to do my research. I learned today that I’m going to Troy, Michigan. I know nothing about it. I just hope that it’s safe and that it’s a place where they respect science. I just want to get back to work. I want to be a person again. I don’t want the world to think I’m over. I’m still here.” (Istanbul, Turkey)humansofny(6/7) “I had no problems before the bombing. I think the cancer came from my sadness and my stress. It’s in my stomach. It’s getting more and more painful. The only reason I can speak to you right now is because I’ve taken a painkiller. I can barely eat. I’m bleeding internally. I’ve gone to five hospitals here. They tell me there’s nothing they can do, especially because I have no insurance and no benefits. My friend in America tells me that it’s an easy surgery, but I’m fighting against time. It’s spreading, and I think that soon it will move beyond my stomach. And then there’s nothing I can do.” (Istanbul, Turkey)humansofny(5/7) “Everything that wasn’t destroyed in our house was stolen over the next two days. We left with nothing. I can’t even pay the rent of this apartment. I’ve been in Turkey for two years now. I’m dead here. I have no life, no respect, and my children aren’t going to school. I have a PhD but I’m not allowed to work without a residence permit. There is a university here that is teaching with a book I wrote, but still won’t give me a job. In order to survive, I’m forced to create designs and give them away to Turkish citizens, who take all the credit and pay me barely enough money to cover the costs of my materials. This year I created blueprints for a giant construction project of 270 big houses. I was paid maybe one percent of what a Turkish citizen would have earned. There is no respect for my work here. Only money is respected.” (Istanbul, Turkey)humansofny(4/7) “I was overseeing a project outside the city when the missile hit my house. Nobody was around to help, so my son had to carry the pieces of his mother and sister out of the house. He was fourteen at the time. He was so smart. He was the top of his class. He's not the same. Right after it happened, he’d write ‘mom’ in his notebook over and over. He’d cry all night long. Two years have passed but he’s still suffering very much. It’s very hard for him to focus. He gets tired very easily. My daughter was in the house too. She still has shrapnel in her neck. We survived but we’re dead psychologically. Everything ended for us that day. That was our destiny. That was our share in life.” (Istanbul, Turkey)humansofny(3/7) “I built this compound for my family. I saved the money for it, I designed it myself, and I oversaw the construction. The first missile tore through the yellow house and exploded inside the pink house. It was a government anti-personnel missile. They are not supposed to be used in residential areas. Inside were 116 small bombs, and each bomb was filled with needles and shrapnel. The pink house belonged to my brother and his entire family was torn to pieces. The second missile landed in the green house but did not explode. That was my house. If the missile had exploded, I wouldn’t have any children left. But it only destroyed the top floor where my wife and daughter were. Sixteen people died in the attack. Seven were from my family." (Istanbul, Turkey)humansofny(2/7) “Our marriage wasn’t arranged. We married out of love. We met when we were students at university. She was studying law. We built a family together. We were a very modern family. We had good days and bad days and rich days and poor days but we were always together. We ate every meal together and educated our children well. My daughter was studying to be a doctor. My son was the smartest in his school. We were well known in the community. Nobody had a problem with us. We had no affiliation with any party or regime. Everyone loved us, honestly.” (Istanbul, Turkey)humansofny(1/7) “My parents were supportive of my education, but they didn’t direct me. My father was a farmer and my mother was a housewife. They did not know much about science. But I was determined to become a scientist through my own personal will. I graduated high school with the third highest scores in all of Syria. I worked construction in the evenings to pay for my school. Even as a teenager, I was being given construction sites to manage. I graduated from university at the top of my class. I was given a scholarship to pursue my PhD. I suffered for my dream. I gave everything. If I had 100 liras, I would spend it on a book. My ultimate goal was to become a great scientist and make a lasting contribution to humanity.” (Istanbul, Turkey)humansofny(4/4) The whole purpose of my trip to Turkey and Jordan was to interview refugees who had been approved for American resettlement. So when this couple showed me the letter saying they’d been ‘deferred,’ I was a bit confused. But I continued the interview anyway. As I learned the rest of the couple’s story, I noticed my UNHCR facilitator typing on her phone. After a few minutes, she came over to me and showed me the screen. It was a text message from the main office. It said: ‘They’ve been approved. Would you care to tell them?’ So it was my great honor to inform this couple that they were going to America. This portrait was taken thirty seconds after they learned the news. (Gaziantep, Turkey)humansofny(3/4) “We’ve been waiting for two years now. We've been through all our interviews. Last week this letter came and said that we’ve been ‘deferred.’ I’m not even sure what that means. We were very truthful about everything. We have nothing left in Syria. I want to continue working as a doctor in America. Here my hands are tied. Refugees are not allowed to work. I don’t have papers. I can’t communicate with anyone. I worked my entire life to become a doctor. I did nothing but study for six years. I didn’t even have a hobby. Now I’m doing nothing. I’m losing hope. I’ve started to wonder if it would have been better for us to go the illegal way across the sea.” (Gaziantep, Turkey)humansofny(2/4) “ISIS needs educated people to support them. None of them finished school. They cannot manage the cities they capture because they have no skills. When they took me to prison, at first they were very aggressive. They kept putting a gun to my head and taking it away. But after a few minutes of this, one of the men began speaking to me in a very nice way. He said: ‘You are an Islamic man. Please, be a good Muslim and help us. We want your wife to open a hospital for us. And we want you to manage it.’ I agreed to everything they asked. I told them I would help. Then the moment they let me go home, we packed our bags and left.” (Gaziantep, Turkey)humansofny(1/4) “I was the only doctor in the area, so when ISIS captured our town, I knew that they would ask me to work for them. We should have left right away. One night five men came to our house. They were wearing masks and they refused to take off their shoes. Their Arabic was not with a Syrian accent. They claimed to be searching for weapons and went from room to room. They knew about me already, because they kept calling me ‘Doctor.’ When they finished searching the house, they arrested my husband. It was a night in January, so it was too cold for them to start their car. The engine kept turning over and over. I thought that maybe a miracle would keep them from taking him. But then I heard the engine start and they drove away. I paced in the street all night. At one point I heard a gunshot in the distance, and I thought for sure they had killed him. I thought it was all my fault. We should have left right away.” (Gaziantep, Turkey)humansofny(4/4) “Doesn’t she look like an American? The lady who did our interview said that she looks like an American. She’s very excited. She’s young, so I know she’ll be able to learn English very easily. She’s a very smart girl. She’s already decided exactly what her room will look like in North Carolina. She won’t stop talking about it. She says that she’s going to do a lot of swimming and learn how to use the computer. Someone at her school told her that kids in America can do whatever they want and never get yelled at. So whenever I try to punish her, she tells me: ‘That won’t be allowed in America.’” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(3/4) “Because I’m a refugee, my life is on pause. My studies have stopped. I’m not working. I don’t have a career. Because I’m Syrian, I’m not allowed to participate in society. It’s been years of doing nothing. I used to be a cheerful person. I was always invited to parties. Now I like to be alone. I’ve become more nervous and aggressive. I yell over silly things. I just want to start my life again. I learned last Thursday that I’m going to a state called North Carolina. I’m very nervous. I know nothing about it. More than anything, I want to finish my education. But mostly I hope that whatever is waiting for me there is better than what I’ve gone through.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(2/4) “I knew immediately after my husband’s death that I would have to let go of my dreams. I fell into a deep depression. I was going to be a single mother so I’d have to focus everything on raising my child. I thought that I would never be able to do anything in my life again. I skipped the orientation for the German university. I missed my German language lessons. Everything seemed to be slipping away. I gave birth to my daughter and moved in with my parents. When I saw my daughter, I realized that I needed to get my life back on track. She’d already lost her father. I didn’t want her to lose her mother too. So I enrolled at the University of Damascus and continued with my studies. I graduated once again at the top of my class. I began to work as a professor while I applied for my PhD. My daughter was getting bigger. Everything seemed to be getting back on track. Then the war came.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(1/4) “I had a very brilliant teacher in elementary school. She was my role model. I don’t remember deciding to be a teacher so much as I remember deciding that I wanted to be just like her. My whole life became about studying. I’d learn every lesson early so that I could participate in class. When my siblings were playing games around the house, I’d plug my ears and work on my homework. Education was my passion. It was all I thought about. I didn’t even want to get married. I finished at the top of my class in both high school and university. I got a scholarship to pursue my Masters at a German university. Then I met a man who was very supportive of me going to school, so I decided to marry. But four months later he was killed in a car accident. And I was pregnant.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(4/4) “We are going to a place called Clearwater, Florida. I don’t know a lot about it. I saw Florida on the television and it looks like it’s close to the sea and has a lot of plants. My dad says the people are friendly and there are a lot of friendly kids there. I really hope that we can have a small farm and a horse when we get there because my grandmother really loves animals. I’d like it to be a square farm with lots of flowers and rabbits. I also hope there is a good tree in Florida because I’d like to build a tree house where we can have some adventures.” (Istanbul, Turkey)humansofny(3/4) “I was at home when the telephone rang. It was my mother. She told me that there had been a bomb at the boys’ school. I immediately tried to call the school but nobody answered. Then I tried to call the bus driver but he didn’t answer either. I imagined the worst. The roads were closed so I couldn’t get to the school. All I could do was pace around the house. Finally the bus driver answered the phone and said that everyone was alive. The bomb had landed on the playground and only destroyed one wall of the school. After several hours the roads were reopened, and they came back home. When I hugged them it felt like the whole world was in my hands.” (Istanbul, Turkey)humansofny(2/4) “When I was in second grade, our school got attacked by a bomb. It was a barrel full of explosions. We were just opening our books to start the class and it’s hard to describe the sound but it was like a building coming apart. I ran to the other class to find my brother and he was crying because of the sound. Our bus left so we didn’t know what to do. But my brother is so smart. He ran to the market and called our grandma.” (Istanbul, Turkey)humansofny(1/4) "I want to be a professor that examines the bones of dinosaurs because I like dinosaurs a lot. I also want to have a dinosaur but I know that’s impossible. I love to go to Google and type: ‘Nice dinosaur movies.’ But that uses a lot of the phone so I don’t get to do that too much. One day I’m going to open a museum full of dinosaur bones. I’m not sure where I’ll find the bones. Probably America and France. Look at this invention we made. We’ve made a lot of inventions. You can make really good things out of stuff you don’t need. We made an alien out of a speaker that we found in the trash, and then we made a person out of milk cartons, and we turned our trash can into a dinosaur because I love dinosaurs.” (Istanbul, Turkey)humansofny“He cried a lot as a baby. By the age of two he wasn’t speaking or eating. Our local doctor didn’t know what was wrong, but we found a good doctor in Damascus, and he told us that our son had autism. The doctor recommended a therapist. On the first day of therapy, he was too scared to even enter the office. But after a few months of treatment, he was able to concentrate and even write the alphabet. He went to therapy every week for the next few years. It was really helping him. He was learning so many things. But when the war came, the roads were closed. We couldn’t go to therapy anymore. The bombs affected him very badly. He gets scared easily. He’s even afraid of the dark. But the bombs scared him very much. He hasn’t been to therapy for years. We have no money or insurance here in Turkey. We are very isolated. It seems that all the progress has been undone. He used to want to learn. He used to get his books out of the bag and bring them to us. But now he just throws them away. He can’t sit still. I’m afraid that we’ve lost too much time now. But my husband is optimistic. He thinks that we will find the right doctor in America.” (Istanbul, Turkey)humansofny(2/2) “I was an only child, but I had eleven children. I built a whole family. Every Friday I’d cook for them at my house. I’d spend the whole day in my kitchen, and all the grandchildren would come over, and the house would be filled with noise. The word ‘family’ is a painful word for me now. The war scattered my children all over the world. They are in Syria, Lebanon, Germany, and Jordan. I love all my children, but this one here is my soul. He’s always taken care of me. He’s even raised his children to take care of me. His daughters are always asking if I need anything-- just like their father. Tomorrow he’s leaving for a place called Memphis, Tennessee. I don’t know what I will do without him. I hope they will let me come to Memphis too. Can you tell us anything about Memphis? Are there nice people there? I heard that it is a city of music. I love music.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(1/2) “I had to leave the home that I’d spent thirty years building. One day I just had to close the doors, turn the key, and leave everything behind. I'm seventy-two. No one wants to leave home at my age. But I left because I have six sons, and I knew one day the soldiers would come for them. My sons weren’t political. They wanted nothing to do with killing, but that didn’t matter. Good people and bad people were all being treated the same way. I watched soldiers take away the neighbors’ boys with my own eyes. They were good boys. I’d known them their whole lives. But they were led away like sheep. They didn’t even speak up because if they opened their mouths they’d be shot. I knew it was only a matter of time before they came to our house. We left everything behind, but now my family is safe. So I am happy.”
(Amman, Jordan)humansofny(3/3) “Ever since we had our first child, I stopped watching the TV. Everyday I used to watch the news and obsess over what was happening back in Syria. But once we had children, I had to realize that I couldn’t change anything, and the worrying wasn’t helping my family. We learned recently that we will be moving to a state called Michigan. I’m a pessimist, so I’m not going to believe it until we are on the plane. But my nephew is there and he says it’s like heaven. He says it’s very green and has nice nature. When we get to Michigan, I’m not going to turn on the television again. I’m done with religion and politics forever. I only want to worry about milk and diapers.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(2/3) “We met because of a wrong number. But we ended up speaking for a few minutes, and at the end of our conversation, he asked if he could call again. Soon he was calling me every day. It never felt romantic. I never felt that he had bad intentions. It just felt like he needed someone to talk to. He would tell me every little detail about his day. We’d talk for hours. Those phone calls were the highlight of my days. I was a refugee too. I was also lonely. So I’d sit in my room and wait for the phone to ring. Eventually we met in person. But I’m seven years older than him. I never once expected him to mention marriage. But then one day he asked if he could come speak to my family.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofny(1/3) “I was studying Literature and French Philosophy when the war came. I wanted to be an Arabic teacher. I didn’t want to be a soldier. I didn’t want to kill anyone. I had no interest in religion or politics. But all the young men were being forced to join the army, so when it came time to renew my papers, I ran. I only packed a small suitcase. I was planning to stay in Jordan for maybe a month until things calmed down. But when a month passed and the war hadn’t ended, I thought: ‘Maybe two months.’ Then: ‘Maybe three months.’ But after three months my mother told me that our house had been destroyed. She sent me a picture on the phone. Everything was rubble. There was nothing to go back to. But I had nothing in Jordan. I’d run out of money. I didn’t know anyone. I was homeless. I felt so alone that I wanted to kill myself. Then one day I tried to call a friend's phone but a strange voice answered.” (Amman, Jordan)humansofnyI’ve just returned from a trip to Jordan and Turkey, where I had the unique opportunity to interview twelve Syrian families that have been cleared for resettlement in America. These families have just reached the finish line of a multi-year screening process, and it was quite an emotional experience to meet with them at this juncture. The life of a refugee in America is by no means easy. But for these families, their resettlement has finally brought the possibility of an end to years of intense hardship. I’m very much looking forward to sharing their stories with you over the coming days.humansofny(3/3) “This time of year always makes me sad because we met at Christmastime and fell in love that winter. He drove a yellow cab during the day, and if I ever called, he’d drop everything and drive to Westchester to see me. I have so many memories of his cab pulling up in a snowstorm. I haven’t changed anything in the apartment since he died. For the longest time I couldn’t even sleep in our bed. I laid a mat on the floor. I don’t cook the foods that he liked anymore. I try to avoid the streets that we walked down together. I used to write letters to him, but that made me too sad. So now I just light an incense on the piano every morning.”humansofny(2/3) “He’d been married before and had three children. I think he doubted that he’d ever meet someone who’d look past his disadvantages. But I fell deeply in love with him and we married. We only had fifteen years together, but I feel like we loved deeper than a lot of people who were together for forty years. He died the most peaceful way possible. He was in California, visiting his daughter, and he was teaching his grandson to play the piano. And while he was playing he had a heart attack. The first thing he did when he felt his heart stopping was try to call me. When I answered the phone, all I heard was three breaths and the sound of the phone dropping.”humansofny(1/3) “We both came to America as part of a performance troupe. I was an actress and he was a musician. During the day he worked as a taxi driver, and I remember that he’d always bring pizza and share it with everyone at rehearsal. He was tall like an American. I was very curious about him. One of the other actresses told me that he’d been a famous jazz musician back in Seoul. I'd recently done a performance in Paris, so I was feeling pretty famous myself, and I got up the courage to approach him. We ended up going out for drinks and then to a jazz club. We spent all night talking. We didn’t even sleep. The next morning we drank some Korean hangover soup and went to church.”humansofny“I’m different than other people. I’m never sad. I make my life happy through discipline. I don’t drink, I don’t smoke, and I eat lots of fiber. Every day I take a walk in the park to think about my balance. I've been a chef, a fashion designer, a painter, and now I’m learning martial arts. I do Tai Chi in the park every morning. It helps give me energy for my painting. I have already learned forty-two moves. I’m ahead of everyone. I’m almost eighty years old, but all the women in my group think I’m in my fifties.”humansofny“You know how I got this hat? I was in the Elite German Mountain Troops for two years. We had to be able to ski, climb, then fight at the end of it all. To graduate, we had to do something called the Edelweiss March. An Edelweiss is a flower that only grows at 8,000 feet. So the Edelweiss March is when you carry 50 lbs of equipment for forty miles through the mountains. And at the end, you get this hat.”humansofny“I’ve been in America since January. But it won’t feel like home until I can get my mom here. For me, home is my mom. It was just the two of us in Panama. We did everything together. The day that I left was a terrible day. We slept together in the same bed that night. We cried in the house, cried in the car, and cried at the airport. I stood at the entrance of airport security for an hour, because we kept waving at each other through the window. My goal is to bring her here. I found a job on the Monster website. I knock on doors for Verizon. I’m supposed to knock on 120 doors a day. It has really been helping me with my English. If I make five sales in a week, I will have my own team. Then if my team does well, then I can be a manager with my own office. If I have my own office, then maybe I can bring my mom to America.”humansofny"Stagnant is too strong a word. But I’m definitely on the brink of needing to decide what I’m going to do."humansofnyTWELVE HOURS left to get HONY Stories for $10.50 on Amazon. The book is marked down 50% for Black Friday weekend, and you can get an additional 30% off by using the coupon code HOLIDAY30, which is valid until midnight. This is about $7 cheaper than the lowest price you'll be able to find for another 362 days, when I'll most likely dress my dogs in Christmas pajamas and remind you again. Happy Holidays! LINK IN BIO.humansofny(3/3) “I’ve never been in a relationship. I haven’t even told my parents that I’m gay. I was sitting with my mother at dinner the other night, and a gay couple walked by holding hands. She said to me: ‘I don’t know why they have to do that in public.’ I didn’t say anything. But I was looking at her, thinking: ‘How do I tell you that’s what I want more than anything?’”humansofny(2/3) “I have a problem falling in love with straight guys. I really had my heart broken recently. We started out as friends. We were interning together and one day I asked him if he wanted to hang out after work. Then suddenly we started spending time together. And we were sharing details about our lives. And we were shopping together. And cooking meals together. It’s not like we were just going to the bar or watching sports. These were real experiences we were sharing. One night we walked across the Brooklyn Bridge to watch the sunset. And we sat on a rock. And I kept casually touching him, and scooting toward him, but he’d always shirk away. I wanted so bad for there to be something. I’d tell myself that he just wasn’t sure of who he was. But in reality, he just wasn’t interested. I was too chicken to tell him how I felt. We just started hanging out less and less. We don’t talk anymore.”humansofny(1/3) “My brother hung himself in the foyer of our living room when I was sixteen. It wasn’t much of a surprise. He’d tried twice before. He'd tried to slit his wrists a few months earlier. And a month before that he tried to overdose on sleeping pills. It wasn’t anyone’s fault. My parents did everything they could. They tried taking him to therapy, taking him to church, giving him all the medications that the doctor prescribed. But nothing worked. He was always angry. When I came home from school that day, Mom and Dad were holding each other and promising that they wouldn’t let this tear them apart. And I’ve spent the last three years of my life trying to help them hold their relationship together. I always had to make sure Mom got out of bed. I’d constantly remind her that she wasn’t a failure. I’d tell her: ‘Look at me. I’m doing great. I’m still here. Be with me. Be with Dad.’ Now that I’ve finally moved away from home, I’m realizing that I spent all my time worrying about them. And now I’ve got a lot to figure out about myself.”humansofny“Simon here. Susie has been reading the same page for ten minutes, so I’ll take this time to tell you that until midnight tomorrow, you can get 65% off HONY Stories on Amazon if you use the coupon code HOLIDAY30. That comes out to $4.50 cheaper than Amazon purchases the book from the publisher. Don’t ask me how I know this. I’m a dog.” LINK IN BIOhumansofny"We're living in sin."humansofny(3/3) “I had to go back to everyone I knew and tell them that the actress decided not to wear my clothes. The stylist sent back all ten pieces. I was so embarrassed. I felt like a failure. I got so depressed that I had to move out of the city for a few months and live with my sister in Maryland. I’ve been doing a lot of praying and going to church. And I feel at peace now. I think that God knew I wasn’t ready for success. If my career had taken off then, I’d have thought it was from my own strength. I was feeling too proud. I needed to remember where my talent came from. I’ve been praying so much. And I’m in a good place now. I’m ready to start moving forward again. And it’s really unbelievable that I just ran into you. Because I just came into the city for the afternoon to buy some fabric.”humansofny(2/3) “It began to seem like my destiny was to be a fashion designer. So many things started happening for me. I started studying fashion at the Art Institute. I was invited to show at Fashion Week in South Africa. I won an award for emerging designers. Then right before graduation, the greatest thing of all happened. I got an email from my favorite actress’s stylist. You have to understand how much I loved this actress. I used to daydream about being her best friend. She was my inspiration. She was the model I used for all my sketches. And now she wanted to wear one of my dresses during a trip to Kenya! The stylist requested that I send ten samples to choose from. I borrowed $5,000 to make the dresses. I worked for weeks. I couldn’t sleep. I even skipped my final portfolio presentation to deliver the samples. I told everyone: my friends, my professors, and even the president of my school. Everyone hugged me and said: ‘We aren’t surprised. You have so much talent. You were meant for greatness!’ Over the next few weeks, I refreshed the actress’s website all day long, waiting to see my dress.”humansofny(1/3) “I used to work at a bank in Cameroon. I designed clothing as a hobby, but I never really saw it as a possible profession. There really is no such thing as a ‘fashion designer’ in Cameroon. If you make clothes, you are known as a ‘seamstress.’ When I arrived in America, I realized that it was possible to pursue a career in fashion. At first I tried to become as Western as possible. I tried to change my accent. I wore extensions and straightened my hair. I started wearing high-end name brands. But when I finally went back to Cameroon for a visit, I was able to see my country with new eyes. I’d always viewed the culture as local and primitive because it was all I’d ever known. But having gotten some distance, I could appreciate its beauty. As soon as I got back to America, I cut my hair and sewed myself a traditional dress. I wore the dress to my job at Saks 5th Avenue, and a customer asked me where she could find it in the store. That gave me so much confidence.”humansofnyFor 72 hours every year, Amazon actually sells $30 HONY books for $10. We’ve dressed Simon in his favorite pair of pajamas to let you know: THAT TIME IS NOW. Here’s the math:
HONY Stories Retail: $29.99
HONY Stories Wholesale: $14.99
HONY Stories now: $10.50

That’s a $4.50 loss on every book sold. Which is a $4.50 win for us. Honestly, these books are so cheap that Santa just shut down the workshop and ordered a bunch of HONY books. He’s sitting on a beach right now getting hammered. For anyone that’s interested, the link is in bio. Use the coupon code HOLIDAY30 at checkout.humansofny“I decided to become a teacher because I knew what it was like to grow up poor, and I wanted to help kids in similar circumstances. I didn’t expect it to be easy. But I guess I thought there’d be only one or two kids acting up in class, and everyone else would be paying attention. Instead it’s only one or two kids who actually behave. I’m drained every day. I’ve been teaching for thirteen years. And if it wasn’t for summer break, I’d have quit already. Forty percent of my job rating is based on standardized testing. It’s the only job I know where your performance is based on how other people behave. I can’t control what’s going on outside my classroom. I can’t control if my kids are from abusive households, or don’t eat breakfast, or can’t get to school on time. But those things affect my rating when they show up in test scores. I need to find a new career where my performance is based on me.”humansofny“At first I didn't think he was manly enough. He would do anything I asked. He was very easy to manipulate.”humansofny“I just lost my first tooth. I was at Times Square and I just swished it to the side and it came out and it didn’t even hurt. My cousin Melissa said that that I could write a book about losing my tooth in Times Square. Melissa is also my teacher’s name. I put my tooth under my pillow and I got five dollars and a toothbrush from the tooth fairy. I didn’t see the tooth fairy but my friend Jamie saw it once and said it had wings and a shirt and maybe some pants!”humansofny“I’d always wanted children, but I just never met the guy. So I decided to go to a sperm bank. I started trying when I was 42, and I had her when I was 45. People always ask me if it’s hard being a single mother. I say: ‘Yes. But not as hard as it would be if I didn’t have her.’”humansofnyRemember the young man from last week who said he wanted to interview the Director of NASA? Well his name is Max, he just filed his report, and there are already murmurs about a Pulitzer. After an intense bidding war with all the major media organizations around the world, HONY narrowly edged out the New York Times to secure the rights to the story: "It all started when I was walking with my dad down a street in midtown. A man, Brandon (an amazing photographer) met me, took our picture and I told him what I wanted to be when I grew up. I said I wanted to be a reporter and that my dream would be to interview the head of NASA. And then NASA responded, how amazing is that? NASA then invited me to interview the administrator today and I learned so much but I’m going to focus on a few things. First of all, I learned that in 2030 we will be on mars! Next, Administrator Bolden (a very nice man) told me that 90% of the film “The Martian“ is real except the size of the dust storm because the atmosphere is too dense. After the interview, we went to the NASA Headquarters Space Operations Center, where I watched the sunrise live from the space station – they see it 16 times a day. I had so much fun and I hope one day that I’ll be able to work for the news again." -- Maxhumansofny"I've got a little bit of man tits. I know, you'd never guess. It's the nipples. Really big nipples."humansofny“It’s our anniversary tonight. He shopped for Mama. Mama got a new bracelet. Mama got earrings. Mama did good. Now we’re going to a steakhouse. I’ve been preparing for this all week. I’ve been cleansing. I took supplements. I’m wearing my Spanx.” “Don’t tell him that.”
“I’ll say whatever I want. I’m wearing my Spanx. He thinks we’re going to a club later so he can see some booty ass naked women. But we’re going home. Only booty he’s gonna see is me with my Spanx off.”humansofny"I'm a union ironworker. I built New York City." "And I built him. He had chicken legs when I met him. Look at him now."humansofny“I took care of my mother for seven years when she got Alzheimer’s. In a way, the experience boosted my self-esteem because now I know how much I can offer to someone I love. I’m a ‘ride or die’ chick.”humansofny"We let our four-year-old name the dog. So this is Broccoli."humansofny"Photography is just a hobby of mine. I’ve never really pursued it professionally. But a few months after we met, I brought her a shoebox full of my old photos—just to share my hobby with her. We looked through them for a few minutes and I left the shoebox at her house. Over the next week, she scanned all the photographs on a high-end scanner, had them professionally printed, wrote captions for them, and arranged for them to be hung in a hallway of the New Brunswick Train Station. She did all of this while studying for her PhD. It was really cool for me to see them hanging up like that. I thought: ‘Man, either this girl really likes my photos, or she really likes me.’”humansofny“I came from Malaysia as part of a work-study program where I worked as an au pair. The company assigns you to an American family, and you take care of the children and do ‘light housework’ in exchange for a place to live and $195 per week. My first year was with a family in Connecticut. They were very nice to me. But when they moved away I was assigned to a family outside of Boston. It was a very difficult year for me. I had no car, no friends, and no activities. I was supposed to have free time while the kids were at school, but the mother would always cut it short so I could do laundry or start cooking meals. She criticized everything I did. One time she asked me to wash winter coats during my free time, and then got mad when I didn’t do it right away—even though it was during the summer. She treated me like an employee, but then gave me extra chores because I was ‘part of the family.’ I even had to take care of the pets. I felt trapped because the company made it extremely difficult to get reassigned. My only other choice was to go back home. But I was lucky, I guess. A lot of my friends in the program had it worse.”humansofny“I thought I’d be a much more secure person at this stage in my life. I thought that if I played by the rules, I’d learn to be happy and becoming an adult would somehow reconcile all my issues. I’m realizing now that nobody grows up. Everyone just grows old.”humansofny"He just got grumpy at Macy's so we had to leave."
"There's way too many types of pajamas."humansofny(3/3) “I did all I could to find out information about my father, but it seemed that everyone who knew him had been killed. I traveled to Poland and searched records. We hired a researcher. We took out an ad in the paper, asking if anyone had information about Klaudiusz Jamiolkowski or Stanislaw Jamiolwski. But we heard nothing. The closest we came was discovering a family in my father’s village that shared his family crest. Their bloodlines crossed over one hundred years ago, but they had no direct knowledge of my father. I ended up becoming great friends with this family. Then one day, just a few years ago, I got a phone call from that family: ‘Tadzio!’ they told me. ‘The commander of the Polish Home Army just gave an oral history. And he mentioned your father by name!’ I went to Poland and found this commander. He was over ninety years old. He told me that he remembered my father well, because he’d lied about his age to become the youngest soldier in the Polish Home Army. And he confirmed every one of the stories that my father had told me.”humansofny(2/3) “My father died when I was six. His entire family was killed during the war, so everything I know about him came from his stories. We know that he was seven when the Nazis invaded Poland. He told us that my grandmother had been stabbed and pushed out a window. He said that he became a child sniper and he’d been shot many times. He was missing part of his ear. He told a story about how he was alone in a house that was being attacked. And while he waited for backup, he fired one shot from every window to convince the Germans that the house was full of soldiers. He said he smuggled guns through Nazi checkpoints by hiding them in his school bag. He said he ran messages through the sewer system during the Warsaw Uprising. All of this supposedly happened before the age of twelve. And all of this was told to us during a time when his memory was being affected by the brain tumor. So I grew up never being sure what exactly was true.”humansofny(1/3) “I was volunteering for Cesar Chavez to organize a grape boycott in Canada when I met my husband. We were meeting at a church when I saw an older man walking toward me. He was so dramatic. He had the most beautiful white hair. He looked like a Polish cavalry officer. Three weeks later I was pregnant. I fell madly in love with him but almost immediately he started dying. I knew that he’d lived through the war. But he never really talked about it. But his brain tumor was growing in the part of his brain that affects memory. And toward the end, he could no longer tell the difference between past and present. So he began to tell these wild stories.”humansofny(3/3) “We met for a couple hours, and decided to go on a picnic the following week. Our goal was to get on his boat, find a random island, and have a picnic. We were out for about an hour when the sky started getting very dark. We decided to keep going. It started pouring. We jumped in the water and hid under the front of the boat. The rain was cold but the water felt like a bathtub. He took this photo of me and sent me an enlargement. When I got home that night, I started writing him letters. I wrote him one letter per day, but I saved them all, and recently I gave him all seventy of them. The first was from the day on the boat. The last line was: ‘And happiness was everywhere that day.’”humansofny(2/3) “I’d also been engaged recently. We broke it off in January. I was trying to make some changes in my life. I stopped wearing make-up for a few months to see what sort of things I’d notice if I stopped looking in the mirror so much. I made a deal with myself that I wasn’t going to post any selfies for a while. I was only going to photograph things that weren’t me. I started posting photos of nature, art, and my teacup collection. That began to attract other people into my life who were interested in those things. One night Chris sent me a message. It was a photo of a bridge he’d just taken. We went back and forth for a couple weeks, then decided to meet. A few months earlier, I probably would have never agreed to meet. But I was at a point in my life where I was trying to be open to new things. I told him my only rule was that he couldn’t murder me.”
“And my only rule was that she had to wear her cat glasses.”humansofny(1/3) “I’d just broken up with my fiancée in May. She left for work one day and never came home, then she mailed me the engagement ring. I was going through a rough time. I’d recently gotten sober. I was managing to stay away from alcohol, but sometimes I’d have to look at my watch and just commit myself to five more minutes of sobriety. One morning I went to a coffee shop and saw they were promoting their hashtag. I was brand new to Instagram, so I was just figuring out how it worked. I typed in the hashtag, and I noticed a post from Whitney. Her hashtags seemed thoughtful, so I followed her.”
“At first I thought he might be a serial killer.”humansofny(4/4) “She left without telling me. I came back from a dentist appointment and everyone was gone. I went into a deep depression. My friend had to move in with me to keep me from killing myself. She wasn’t allowed to take my kids like that. The court issued a summons, but her father got a lawyer and they took out an order of protection against me. I’m not a bad man. I’m not a bad father. She knows I love my kids. She can’t look me in the eye and tell me that I’m an abusive man. I would never hurt her. But there was something that happened. We had an argument a week before she left. I got so mad and stressed that I grabbed a bat and started smacking the door and the wall. She came out of the kitchen and she caught me in that moment. She was so scared. I’ll never forget the look of terror in her eyes. I immediately dropped the bat. I said ‘I’m so sorry babe,’ but she didn’t want me to talk to her or touch her. It took four days for her to let me kiss her again. Then a few days later she was gone. I haven’t seen my family for a year. I know it was wrong. I’m sorry. But I’d never hurt her or the kids, I promise. I was only hurting the wall.”humansofny(3/4) "We worked so much that Stacy and I barely saw each other. We were doing better financially, but the bills had really piled up. You can’t grow in this city. I was raised in Puerto Rico. When you work in Puerto Rico-- you buy some land and you build a house. You can see the growth. But nothing grows in this city. You work, and you work, and you work, but you live in a box and nothing changes. It all adds up to nothing. We were surviving, but we always seemed to be on the edge. I could handle it because I’m laid back. I can live my life without thinking about tomorrow. And the kids were fine because they’re kids. But Stacy wasn’t fine. She saw all the homeless families on the street, and the families in the shelters, and she was convinced that was going to be us. She was always so worried. She was stressed all the time about the rent and the food and the bills. She was driving me crazy with the nagging. We kept getting in stupid fights. I kept telling her: ‘Stacy, you’ve got to stop worrying about all this bullshit!’ We did have our little moments where we’d go to the beach or the park and forget about things, and we’d have a moment of peace. But those moments never lasted. Every morning Stacy would wake up and smoke a cigarette, and you could just see the unhappiness in her face. I should have left. I should have given up and moved us all back to Pennsylvania. Instead I started smoking too much weed, and trying some other stuff. And that made it worse.”humansofny(2/4) "I think she regretted coming the moment we got here. The first time we rode the subway together, a man and a woman started slapping each other on the train. Everyone on the train just pretended not to notice. I remember that bothered her so much. She just wasn’t made for the city. We moved into a small apartment in East Tremont. We set aside an entire room for me to play music. Things were OK for the first eight months. We went to museums and parks, and the kids seemed to be happy. Things were going pretty good. But soon the money ran out. We’d had $14,000 in savings but we burned through that pretty quick. Stacy had to start working at Dunkin Donuts. I had to get two jobs. I was a carpenter during the day, and I worked overnight in the shipping department of a big store on 5th Avenue. Not much was happening with music. Everything cost so much money: studio time, instruments, musicians. It wasn’t fun anymore. Everything was about money. When we lived in Pennsylvania, I’d stood out. I’d been different. I was a guy from the city. Once we moved to the city, I was just a common dude like everyone else.”humansofny(1/4) "I met Stacy in Pennsylvania when I was working for her father. She was a smart girl. She was studying to be an accountant. I think she was really intrigued by me because I was from the city. I had a different way of talking and a different way of acting. I stood out. The way she looked at me—you could tell how much she loved me. And that lasted for a long time. Through our marriage. Through the kids. Everything was going great. We had a car, a family, a house. We had five children. I’d come home at 5:30 or 6:00 every night and I’d get a hug and a kiss. Stacy had her own little business, and she was eventually planning on opening a bakery. She had everything she wanted. But I couldn’t get used to it. I went from the house to the job, from the job to the house. I thought: ‘This can’t be the end of my life.’ I’d always loved playing music, so I thought: ‘If I’m going to do something else, it’s got to be now.’ So Stacy and I made a deal. We’d move to New York for five years while I tried to start a music career. We’d give it five years and if nothing happened, we’d come back. Honestly, she was so in love with me at that point that she’d probably have followed me to Africa.”humansofny“When he picked me up for our first date, he showed up in high top tennis shoes with the toes ripped open, no laces, and no socks. He had ripped up army pants with no belt, a mugger ski cap, and three days worth of beard. I thought: 'I can fix him.' It’s been 34 years of subversive activity to make him presentable. Every time I do a load of laundry, something ‘accidentally disappears.’”humansofny“We met at a wedding. One of his friends bet him ten bucks that he couldn’t get a date with me. He was so drunk at the time. When he came to pick me up at my house a few days later, my sister and I were sitting in the living room. And he wasn’t even sure which one I was.”humansofny“My dad goes all over the world and learns about the news. One time he met a king. I want to be a reporter too. If I was a reporter right now, I’d probably write a story about if NASA was going to launch a new rocket into space. I’d start by going to the Director of NASA. Then I’d ask him about his rockets. And if any of them were going to space.”humansofny(4/4) “I’m thirty-three. I haven’t been on screen in over a year. Right now I’m down to $50 in my bank account and I’ve got to make $1300 in the next three days just to pay the rent. There’s a lot of pressure on me right now. The only reason I’m sitting down is because I needed a break. I just finished pitching a woman about a spa package, and she talked to me for about ten minutes. I thought I was going to make a sale. But then she told me ‘no.’ Honestly, I felt like I was going to start crying. I had to sit down. Right now I feel like I’m an arrow that can’t be pulled back any further, and is about to be released. I feel like I’m heading toward greatness. Honestly, I have no choice but to believe that. The path has been so shitty. The only way I can make sense of the world is to believe it’s leading me somewhere.”humansofny(3/4) “So many people in this city will use your dreams against you. They capitalize on your desire to be significant. I’ve spent so much money trying to be an actor. I’ve worked for free on films that never even got edited. I’ve paid to be in workshops and agent showcases where people pretend to be interested in my work just to collect my $150 entrance fee. Then they don’t even have the courtesy to answer my email when I follow up. I’ve seen so many old geezers cast young women in their films just so they can see their ass or grope them. It’s offensive. This is supposed to be art. How can you take advantage of someone’s hope of meaning something in this world? That’s as low as it gets.”humansofny(2/4) “The hardest part about trying to be an actor isn’t the small amount of money I’m making. It’s imagining how much more comfortable I’d be if I had spent the last ten years of my life focusing on something else. Right now I’m selling comedy tickets and spa passes to people on the sidewalk. I’ve been doing this job for years because it allows me to make my own schedule. I tried selling drugs for awhile. At first I rationalized it to myself. I told myself that fried chicken is bad for you, and people sell fried chicken, so I wasn’t all that different from KFC. But then one night I saw a girl overdose at Pacha. She was foaming at the mouth and her whole body went stiff. I hadn’t sold her any drugs, but I realized that I easily could have. So I just couldn’t do it anymore. I’d never sell drugs to my little brother, so I shouldn’t feel OK selling them to other people’s family members.”humansofny(1/4) "I feel like everything in my life has been preparing me to be an actor. I started acting when I was a student at Hunter College. One of the theater department heads asked me to be in his next play. I wasn’t even in his class. He said that I was amazing for someone with no training. The next year, he gave me a leading role as King Agamemnon. That’s when I really started studying the craft. And the more I learned about acting, the more it seemed like my destiny. It seemed like my entire life had been preparing me to be an actor. As a young child, my father used to stand me up on a box and have me read poems to the entire family. I’d been an altar boy for years. I was in the honor guard of the Air Force. Everything I did involved some element of theater. It just seemed like everything in my life was leading to this. Ten years later, that sense of destiny is really the only thing that’s still keeping me going."humansofny"We're having a baby in January so my wife's stomach is getting pretty big. It’s a very visual life change. Most of the other life changes we’ve planned for so far have just existed in our minds. When we planned our wedding last year, we could think about the wedding we wanted, but we couldn’t actually see it. This is different. There’s a big change coming. And we can see it.”humansofny“I lived in Cobble Hill for 20 years. I had a rent-stabilized apartment. But I got tired of the city. I got tired of the crowds, and the people bumping into you, and nobody saying ‘Excuse me.’ So I had the idea to move to Atlanta and try to open a café. My friends said: ‘Don’t do it. You’ll regret losing the apartment.’ But I was feeling adventurous. I was tired of New York. I knew I made a mistake the first day I was there. I didn’t have a car. I had to walk a mile to Trader Joe’s. There were no cabs anywhere. No fucking cabs. What the fuck? And the hills! So many hills! And the movie I wanted to see was two counties away. Two counties! I don't even want to talk about laundry day. I missed being able to get everything I needed on my block. I missed the sidewalks, and the tall buildings, and the half-priced Broadway tickets, and the restaurants. I can take the crowds now. I can handle it. But I lost my apartment! I don’t know where to live. An apartment that size is going to cost me twice as much now. I can only afford a room. I should have listened to my friends. Oh man, I messed up.”humansofny(6/6) “I’m trying to make it on my own. It’s been a tough road. I fell behind at our first apartment and we got evicted. But I went through a job program for women and now I work as a case manager with Coalition for The Homeless. We moved into a two-bedroom in Bedford-Stuyvesant. I love my job, but I’m trying to raise four kids on a single income. We don’t have much extra stuff. We don’t have cable. The kids say they need internet for school but we’d need a computer for that, so we just go to the library. I’d love to hang up nice curtains. Or paint the house. But I don’t want to make our apartment into a home because I’m afraid to get too comfortable. I’ve already come close to missing rent so many times. I feel like I can never relax. But I have the most wonderful children. They never want me to buy them new things. But I’m afraid that I’m damaging their confidence. I can’t do anything nice for them. And I don’t want them to grow up feeling like they don’t deserve nice things. But at least we’re together. And we have a home. And we’re safe. I tell the girls all the time that we should feel lucky. I think they get tired of me saying that. But I honestly feel that we're so lucky.”humansofny(5/6) “We’d been at the shelter for just a few days when he showed up. He tracked me using the GPS on my phone. The shelter has two sets of sliding doors for security. You walk through the first door, it closes behind you, and the second door opens. He jumped inside just as the first door was closing. The kids started screaming. He pushed me to the ground. While the security was dragging him away, he was screaming that I’d stolen his children. And that everything was my fault. And it made me feel guilty. He always knew how to make me feel guilty.”humansofny(4/6) “One day the counselor at my daughter’s elementary school called me. She said that my daughter had spoken up in class about the abuse. She asked me to come in for a meeting. I downplayed it because I was scared. I told her: ‘Thanks for your concern. But it was nothing, really. And it’s already stopped.’ The counselor gave me a pamphlet for a place called HeartShare. HeartShare was just two blocks from my house, so I stopped in one day. I told the counselor what was happening. She discussed the option of domestic violence shelters. But I didn’t want to do it. I didn’t want to break up my family. Then one day he beat me so badly in the stairwell. He punched me so hard that he got blood on my children. I told the counselor what happened and she said to gather all my papers. She told me she’d be in a black car on the corner. I told my husband I was going to the grocery store. I was so nervous because he timed me every time I left the house. I still had to pick up the kids from school. And if I was gone for more than a few minutes, he’d come looking for me.”humansofny(3/6) “I started to become afraid of him. But I never argued back because I thought it would make him even more angry. He started to pick on me. He’d criticize how I dressed. And how I wore my hair. I remember it used to bother him that I used the word ‘love’ so much. I was an optimistic girl, so I was always talking about how I ‘loved’ things. ‘Stop saying that word,’ he’d say. ‘Why do you love everything? That’s so stupid.’ I remember one night he hit me because I mixed his vegetables with his rice. I became very still and quiet around him. Just like I’d been with my mother. Remember—this was all I’d ever known. ‘It’s normal,’ I told myself, ‘Everyone gets a beating sometimes.’ We had five children together. It’s hard to explain why I stayed. He began beating blood out of me. But then he’d hug me and tell me he was sorry. He’d tell me that he needed me. He told me about his childhood. He told me that his father beat him every day. He told me that he had no mother. He used to say: ‘I see you as my mother.’ And that made me feel good. ‘I need you,’ he’d say. And that feeling of being needed is what kept me in that house. He was the father of my children, after all. I told myself he’d been traumatized. And it wasn’t his fault. But here’s the thing-- I’d been traumatized too. And I didn’t hurt anyone.”humansofny(2/6) “Looking back, I don’t know if it was love or lust. I didn’t have anything to compare it to at the time. He started driving me home from work. Then we started going on little dates. Soon we were spending all our time together. I moved out of the group home and began living with him. I cooked for him, and did his laundry, and ironed his clothes. It was natural for me. I’d done all of this for my siblings because our mother would leave us for months at a time. I’d always told myself that I was never going to be like my mother. I was going to be a perfect mom. And a perfect wife. And now that I had the man of my dreams, I’d do anything he asked. The first time he hit me was when I was seven months pregnant with our first child. I woke up to him screaming at me: ‘You see I’m awake, now get up and help me!’ I need help with my insulin!’ I tried to help him with his insulin but I didn’t do it right. So he pushed me on the floor.”humansofny(1/6) “I grew up in a household where you were beaten for small things. Like breaking a dish. Or asking for food. My mom was very religious, so she’d take us to church and we’d listen to the pastor talk about love. Then she’d still take us to the back room and beat us. I ran away when I was thirteen. I lived in group homes and foster homes in every borough. When I met him, I was working at the supermarket. I was sixteen. He was sixteen years older than me. He had a car. He was handsome. He’d do little things to make me laugh. He’d wait in a long line just to buy a stick of gum from my register. He gave me compliments. I’d never been complimented in my entire life. He called me smart. And pretty. And nice. He brought me flowers. I’d never experienced anything like that before. I felt so alone at the time. I was living at the group home. I didn’t have anyone to teach me about life. I wanted a family. I wanted a protector.”humansofny“I’m a high school guidance counselor. I’m actually writing letters of recommendation right now. It’s tough to be a teenager. You want to be independent while still having to rely on everyone around you. As adults, we’ve been through it all, and we know what’s coming, and we want to protect them. But they don’t want to be protected. I just hope that every student at my school can find one or two adults that they relate to. And that's going to be a different teacher for every student. But we're getting older too, so it can be harder and harder to be relatable. I have to really work to keep up with the technology and terminology. I had to text my stepdaughter recently to find out what ‘bae’ means.”humansofny“I went to pick up my daughter and my baby’s mother wouldn’t let me in the house because her new boyfriend was over. I’m trying to get in the door, she’s trying to keep me out, and she ends up on the ground. The police came and got me the next day. They had a picture of my baby’s mother with a single cut on her forehead. My heart sank. My public defender was very nice. She said she believed me. Every time she interrogated my baby’s mother, the story kept changing. First it was I pushed her. Then it changed to I threw her into the wall. Then it changed to I punched her in the face. But my lawyer said it was dangerous to go to trial. She said without a witness, the woman is going to have the advantage. She said if I lose at trial, I could go to jail for seven years. I couldn’t risk that, so I pleaded guilty in exchange for three months. I told the judge: ‘I didn’t do it, but I’m pleading guilty.’ The judge said: ‘If you’re pleading guilty, you did it.’ I did the time, and now a few years later, I’m working a full time job, and my baby’s mother is on trial for robbing a store. But it’s not like I can go back in time and wave that in the judge’s face. Every time my daughter comes to visit, she starts crying and begs me not to send her back home. But they tell me because of the domestic violence charge, they’ll put her in the foster system before giving her to me.”humansofny“I was watching the girls’ dance class one night when I noticed one girl in particular: beautiful, slim, big afro. She didn’t wear much make-up. She was a natural beauty. But when she noticed me looking at her, she did that face thing. She scrunched up her face like ‘don’t be looking at me.’ But that was the one I wanted. Back in the 70’s, if you had good words you could say to a woman-- that was known as your ‘rap.’ But I was shy. I had no rap. But I said: ‘Fuck it,’ and I asked to be introduced to her. We dated for six months. I took her to movies and parties, but I never made it official. One day my friend Douglas warned me that she was getting impatient, so I finally asked her to go steady. But she said: ‘Too late. I’m taken.’ She said she was already dating the lead singer of a band. I swear she did it just to get a rise out of me. She had me begging her. I’d drop by her house. I’d get her girlfriends to put in a good word for me. I’d go to all the same parties just to get one slow dance and whisper into her ear. I finally convinced her. Last Thursday was our 39th wedding anniversary.” (4/4)humansofny“The Bernice Johnson Dance Studio made me who I am today. It kept me off the streets. I hung around a group of kids who would go steal a car every Friday, but I could never go with them because I was always in the studio. Learning to drum made me feel proud. It made me feel like I was connecting to my culture, and also helping to pass it along. Our teachers took a trip to Africa every year. And they’d come back and talk to us about the latest dances and beats. I learned that so much in Africa revolved around the drum: harvest, marriage, circumcision, everything. I learned that our names were changed when we were brought over during slavery, and so we’re all connected, and you never know who might be your family. Everyone supported each other. Bernice had a rule: ‘If you come from my studio, and you make it to the top, you come back and bring five more with you.’ I’ll bet you there were more Bernice Johnson dancers on Broadway than any other studio.” (3/4)humansofny“That night Douglas took me to the Bernice Johnson Dance Studio in Jamaica, Queens. The place was full of black people playing drums and doing African dances. I’d only been in New York for a few years at that point, and I was still experiencing some culture shock. Growing up in Georgia, all I’d ever known was black and white. I’d never really seen Asian people before. I only knew about Jewish and Italian people from the Bible. And when I arrived at that dance studio, I learned that I didn’t know much about African people either. I’d only seen Africans while watching Tarzan on the television. Douglas’s father was the chief drummer at the studio. I’ve got a picture of him right here. He became like a second father to me. He noticed me watching the girls dance, and he said: ‘Quit watching those girls and learn to play the drums. If you learn the drums, the girls will come to you.’” (2/4)humansofny“One day when I was fourteen years old, I was hanging out at the swimming pool at Richmond Hill High School, and this kid named Douglas came up to me. I was dating a girl named Carmen at the time, so he said to me: ‘I heard you’re going with Carmen.’ I told him I was. And he said, ‘That’s impossible. Because I’m going with Carmen.’ We went back and forth for awhile, then decided to settle it right then, so we both hopped onto his bike and rode over to Carmen’s house. When Carmen opened the door, and she saw both of us standing there, she was so scared that she didn’t know what to say. Douglas and I became best friends after that. If you saw one of us, you saw both of us.” (1/4)humansofny“I don’t see me living past forty. I’m just too tired. Even at twenty-eight, I feel like I’ve lived one thousand years. Sometimes I feel like I’ve been alive since biblical times. The only reason I’m living is to survive. I work as a janitor now on the Upper East Side. Staying away from people helps keep me from going crazy. Everybody is always at each others’ throats all the time. I just wish something would wipe us off the face of the earth. I mean, I don’t want it to be painful for anyone. I just want it to be over so we can all just get some rest. Unless there’s a hell. Then maybe we’re better off here.” (3/3)humansofny“My mom knew I was getting picked on at school. I tried not to tell her, but she’d see me come home unhappy every day. She’d open up my binder and see the notes I wrote about hating everyone. She’d tell me to trust in God. And that God was always with me. And not to fight back, because God was working out justice, even if I couldn’t see it. She was the closest thing I ever had to heaven. She was like Mother Theresa. When I was around her my anger would go away. Not completely, but almost. She died when I was twenty-one of esophageal cancer. I feel like The Flash sometimes. His mother was murdered when he was a child, and he’s always obsessing about going back in time to save her. I wish I could go back to a year before they found the cancer, and say: ‘I know you don’t feel anything right now. But you should go to the hospital and get your throat checked.’” (2/3)humansofny“I was one of three white kids at the school. I’m actually not even white, I’m Hispanic. But I look white. Every single day I had balls of paper thrown at my head in class. And there’s nothing I could do. If you tell the person to stop, then you’ve got three or four people threatening you. If you tell the principal, then you’re a snitch. And ‘snitches get sliced.’ I saw one kid get beaten really badly on the subway platform. I kept having to transfer classes. The principal asked me why it was me that kept getting picked on. I didn’t know what to say. There were two other white kids, and it wasn’t so bad for them. But they were more ‘street’ than me. So people respected them. I was weak. One time a kid asked me if I smoked weed, and I told him no. I said that I thought drugs were stupid. He shouted to his friends that the white boy called them stupid. And I’ve got four kids around me shouting: ‘Fuck him up!’ ‘Fuck him up!’ I carried so much anger inside of me. I’d watch horror movies and imagine that I was Michael Myers, and I was slaughtering all the people who bullied me. I’m ashamed to admit it, but I’d imagine that we were living in Nazi Germany, and I could report these people to Hitler. I’d never do anything violent. But these were the thoughts I was having. The closest I came to snapping was one day when somebody pushed me in the hall and said: ‘You don’t belong here. This isn’t Columbine.’ And I said: ‘You don’t belong here. This isn’t Rikers.’ But that’s the most I ever pushed back.” (1/3)humansofny“I’m working at a preschool where we let the kids determine the curriculum. Say we’re learning about rocks, and one of the children uses his rock to smash a nearby gourd. Instead of correcting him, we ask ourselves why he likes to smash things. Maybe he’ll be interested in planting the seeds we find inside the gourd, so we'll try to plan a lesson around that. If that doesn't hold his interest, we’ll just find more things to smash.”humansofny"I just finished applying to 27 law schools. I can recite my personal statement word for word."humansofny“I lost a baby at the end of May. I was just a little over two months into the pregnancy. I wasn’t showing or anything. And I hadn't announced the pregnancy yet. So I don’t think that the baby seemed real to anyone else. But it was real to me. Every time I passed a children’s store, I’d look in the window and smile. I began to look closely at all the different types of strollers people were pushing down the street. I bought a little monkey for the baby that I carried around with me. I started planning our life together. Then one day it felt like someone was stabbing me in the lower abs. I went to the doctor, and they told me that I’d had an ectopic pregnancy, and the baby was lost. I felt really alone afterward because most of my friends hadn’t even known the baby existed. They couldn't understand how I felt. Part of it was my fault. I didn’t want to talk about it. Yet I still expected everyone to understand."humansofny“I wish I could go back to college for the rest of my life.”humansofny“Chris didn’t tell me he was HIV positive until he began to get really sick. It was 1991, so there wasn’t much that could be done back then. It was the only time we ever argued. I wanted him to take care of himself so he could live as long as possible. He wanted to keep traveling, and drinking, and eating whatever he wanted. He kept working right until the end. Even when he was so sick that he had to be hooked up to an IV feed, he was making plans to go to the Netherlands to choreograph a show. He’d located a doctor there and everything. But he never made it. He began to lose his lucidity toward the end. One night he began to direct us. There were three of us in his hospital room, and he told us to arrange the lamp a certain way, then he had us lift him into the air. He seemed to be somewhere else. I think in his mind he was actually on a stage.” (3/3)humansofny“A lot of times being a costume designer is drudgery. A director will tell you that he wants a pink dress with blue ruffles, and you just have to follow orders. But the process was so much more with Chris. It was something intimate. He was the creative. He liked ideas, and colors, and shapes. I was the technician. I handled the nuts and bolts of things. He’d tell me that he wanted something ‘crisp.’ Or he’d cut things out of magazines that inspired him. Or he’d play a piece of music that he wanted me to embody. Sometimes he’d just point to an old brick wall with peeling paint, and say: ‘Make me something that looks like that.’ Our work represented our relationship. It was all about the process for me. Chris was more about the accomplishment. I remember how excited he was when one of our shows was featured on the front page of the New York Times’ Arts section. He felt that he was finally starting to be recognized. But it was bittersweet, because he’d started to get sick by then.” (2/3)humansofny“I was a costume designer, and I joined a famous dance company shortly after moving to New York. On my first day, one of the dancers told me that she’d met her best friend while on the job. I remember wishing that I could be so lucky. When I met Chris, he was still a dancer. But he was so talented that soon the director was giving him his own shows to choreograph. We worked together on everything. We could not have been more different. I had no interest in being famous. I grew up in a quiet family. I didn’t want to have a famous name or make a million dollars. But both of Chris’s parents had been Olympic skiers. So Chris wanted to win. He wanted his name in the paper. He’d always say things like: ‘That job should have been mine,’ or ‘I could have done that show better than him.’ I’m a born assistant. I didn’t have that drive but I enjoyed being close to it. It was like this breeze was coming off him all the time. He brought 100% of himself into everything he did. He was the kind of dancer that you'd pay to watch him walk a dog. I think he valued me because I was a willing participant in all his schemes. It was exciting just to be around him.” (1/3)humansofny"Grandma was supposed to babysit today, but she wasn't feeling well. So I got the nudge at 6 AM."humansofny"Do me a favor and put this picture on Facebook, because I've been trying to send my daughter a picture of this foliage on my flip phone, and it's just not coming out. I've tried every setting."humansofny“I have this image of myself as the fun friend who is easy going, always good for a laugh, and always ready to listen to your problems. But I don’t share my own problems because I’m afraid that my friendship will seem less valuable if I do. I’m afraid that if I’m sad, I’ll seem boring. I don’t want people to start thinking: ‘This isn’t fun anymore.’ Or ‘This isn’t what I signed up for.’ So I tend to shut myself off. I’ll tell you all about my interests and activities. But when it comes to how I’m doing, I don’t like to move beyond ‘I’m fine.’ So I have all sorts of tricks to keep the conversation focused on the other person. I’m a great listener. And I love details: ‘Me? I’m great! But what about you? I seem to remember that you were going to dinner with your sister-in-law last night, right? At the Italian restaurant? Was the linguine better this time? Less crispy?’”humansofny“My cat died about a week before Brook did. Her name was Naja. She used to always nuzzle in between Brook and I, so we would laugh about how she was jealous and trying to come between us. Whenever we’d see a stray cat on the street, Brook would say that Naja had sent a spy to keep an eye on us. I didn’t see a stray cat for a whole week after Naja died. When I finally saw one, I took this photo and sent it to Brook. He texted back that Naja had sent the cat to keep an eye on me. I got a call that night at 1:07 AM. Brook had a heart attack. He passed away before I got to the hospital. I like to imagine Brook and Naja nuzzling together in heaven. It’s one of the things that’s helped me get through these last few months.” (2/2)humansofny“We were together for about a year. He was my first real relationship after my divorce. We discovered all these strange coincidences in our lives. After we met, we noticed that we had over one hundred mutual friends on Facebook. We found out that we’d both grown up in a corner house off Pickford Avenue in Detroit. We were both writers. We went to the same local library growing up. All of these things seemed so perfect. I thought they showed that we were meant to be together. The coincidences still seem meaningful to me, but now they just seem to mean that we were meant to collide.” (1/2)humansofny“I don’t have friends. I don’t have family. But I’m a very popular man all around the United States. I’ve been selected by the Italians to have my work protected by the Vatican. They’re a hard group to get attention from. But they speak to me through body language.”humansofny“He’s a miracle dog. He’s twelve years old. He had a stroke three years ago where he lost the use of his back legs. And a month ago he fell off an eleven-story balcony, and only broke one rib. Eleven stories! I swear. Google ‘Bonzo’ and ‘balcony.’ You’ll see.”humansofny"Not sure if this is Facebook material, but she just learned how to say 'I made poopy.'"humansofny"There's nothing hard about being four."humansofny"What do you feel most guilty about?"
"My mom doesn't know that I'm married to a man."humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny"You should have been here a few minutes ago. The kids were crying from the cold. It would have been a perfect Save The Rhinos advertisement."humansofny"Everyone chose their own costume."
"Except for Daddy. Daddy has no choice."humansofny"I'm an 'es-ka-vader!"humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny"I came all the way from Wisconsin for a costume contest. I got beat by an eleven year old Grim Reaper."humansofny“The man was eventually convicted, but he fled the country before his sentencing and went back to Italy. My father never got the gold bar back. He lost more than the money. The gold represented all of his struggles. When he first came from Ecuador, he worked in the back of a restaurant cutting onions. Then he became the manager of a bar downtown. Then he became one of the best store managers that Party City ever had. Eventually he bought his cousin’s jewelry business because he wanted to work for himself. When he saved up enough money to buy the gold bar, he kept telling us that he was going to pay for my college with it, and my brother’s college, and that he was also going to buy a house in Ecuador. When the gold was stolen, he couldn’t sleep for weeks. He got really depressed. I tried to tell him that it was only money, and that I’d figure out a way to take care of the family, but it didn’t seem to comfort him. I’m at Rutgers now, studying finance. I don’t know what I’m going to do, but I want to figure something out quick so my dad can retire.” (3/3)humansofny“I drove over an hour to the meeting place, and I set the bar of gold on the table while we talked. I felt a weird energy right away. There were three men. They were Italian. One of them was constantly puffing on one of those e-cigarettes, and could not stop pacing around the room. Another guy was doing all the talking. He was very animated, and talked with his hands, and had a ponytail. He kept telling jokes. He wrote us a check for $265,000, but he told us not to cash it, because in 24 hours he was going to bring the full amount in cash. But the next day he never called. My father started sweating and turned pale. He kept calling the man’s phone, but he never answered. Finally my father called the police to file a report. The police said: ‘Yesterday this man filed a complaint against you for selling him fake gold.’” (2/3)humansofny“My dad owns a shop where he buys and sells gold. He has dual citizenship in the US and Ecuador, so sometimes he’s able to buy gold straight from the mines in Ecuador for cheaper than he can get in New York. A few years ago he was given a very good opportunity to buy cheap gold, so he put all his savings into a bar that weighed over 2.5 kilograms. It was worth about $200,000. Not long after he bought it, the price of gold took a sharp fall. My father called me from the store one day, and told me that he’d found a man who was going to buy the gold for last week’s price. He wanted me to get the bar from his bedroom and bring it to him. I was just twenty years old at the time, but I told my dad that it didn’t sound right, and I didn’t think we should be greedy for a few more thousand dollars. But he told me that he’d been talking to the guy for a few weeks now, and that there was nothing to worry about.” (1/3)humansofny"I'm keeping an eye out for my ex-roommate. He got drunk, destroyed the apartment, then ran out the side door when I called the cops. So when the police arrived, I was standing in the middle of a destroyed apartment, looking like a crazy man."humansofny“I wish I had more backbone. We’ve been dating five years, and he seems more willing to walk away, so he has all the power. Whenever I question something he does, he says: ‘Then maybe we shouldn’t be together.’ I can never bring myself to say the same thing to him. So if he does something that bothers me, I think: ‘I can stand it.’ But if I do something that bothers him, he says: ‘I’m not going to tolerate it.’”humansofny“A few weeks ago I was sitting in the Saratoga library doing some sketches, and one of the librarians started looking over my shoulder. Then suddenly she asked if she could show the sketches to one of her colleagues. Next thing I know—they are asking me to do a series of Halloween sketches to hang in the library. It wasn’t my first time in the limelight. I’d read some poetry before on a public access television show in Queens. But seeing my art publicly displayed like that was extraordinary. I felt super. I felt great. I still feel great!”humansofny"Two weeks ago I ran away to Maryland to marry someone I met on Instagram. Yesterday I ran back home."humansofny"I'm going to be a mermaid."
"What's the hardest part about being a mermaid?"
"Holding your breath."humansofny“I recently returned from seventeen days of backpacking on the Pacific Crest Trail. I took up backpacking after I got through the divorce. It was my way of regaining some control. After five years of adjusting everything to her, it gave me something to focus on that was only for me. I love to plan the trips. I love to look at the maps, and pick the best trails, and study the elevation profiles so I can choose the campsite with the best view. There is no pressure when I’m backpacking except for the pressure I put on myself. In the city, it seems that I always have a reason for being in a place. I’m in this park right now because my therapy session was half a block away. But when I’m backpacking, the only reason I’m in a place is just to be there. And that’s very cathartic.” (4/4)humansofny“I told her I wasn’t going to leave the home during the divorce. She tried to scream but I stood my ground. I slept on the couch. She locked herself in the bedroom. Things were so tense that I’d piss in a cup to keep from going to the bathroom. My lawyer told me to record everything. So I kept my iPhone on ‘record’ while it was in my pocket. One morning I was eating breakfast with my son, and she walks in the kitchen and says to my son: ‘Dylan, let’s play a game. Let’s see if Daddy has a recording device.’ Then she came and started going through my pockets. I tried to push her hand away, and she said: ‘Dylan come help Mommy search Daddy.’ I kept trying to push her hand away, and she started screaming: ‘Stop hitting me! Stop hitting me! Put down the scissors! Somebody call the police!’ Our nanny ran in the room, sees me holding my wife’s arm, and ran to get help. My wife reported domestic violence and filed a restraining order. My hand is shaking just talking about it.” (3/4)humansofny“My wife was never happy, and everything had to be adjusted to that situation. In her mind, everyone was always against her. She had a constant sense of victimhood. I saw her journal one day, and without going into detail, I will say it seems that she had a very abusive childhood. But that translated into a non-stop, throbbing anxiety. She’d pick fights with shopkeepers. She went through three different dentists. She made one of them refund her invisible braces because she could see them. Her friendships would last an average of four months before she manufactured a reason to break them off. And she’d always try to get me on her side during these feuds. If I tried to talk reason to her, she’d claim that I was against her too. One day my mother’s friend was walking behind my wife on the street, and overheard her talking about getting a divorce. I’d seen up close how vindictive she could be, so I decided to get a lawyer too. We’d signed a pre-nup, so my lawyer told me that I’d have very little leverage. And I knew my wife would chisel anything she could from me. So my lawyer told me: ‘This is going to be extremely tough, and many of my clients can’t handle it. But the law allows you to remain in your apartment during the proceedings. If you stay in the house with her, our one bargaining chip will be her desire to get you out of the house.’” (2/4)humansofny“Her previous husband had been a wealthy heir. So she was used to a high lifestyle. But before the pregnancy, she seemed to emphatically enjoy my company. She exuded positivity. We’d go on vacation and she’d say things like: ‘Isn’t it wonderful here? The air is so nice.’ She changed when she got pregnant, but I thought: ‘Maybe it’s just hormones.’ I tried to do the right thing so we got engaged. She needed a very big ring. She’d taken some gemologist courses, so she dragged me around for weeks while she looked for the perfect stone. Then she turned her attention to me. She sent me to a custom tailor. She made me get a $12,000 watch. She was so concerned with appearances. She told everyone that her father was a top executive when I knew he was a middle manager. In retrospect, you can see the patterns, but in the moment you’re just like: ‘Fuck, hopefully things will go back to normal tomorrow.’” (1/4)humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny"She's a very understanding mom. I just told her that I'm going to tattoo a picture of my dog on my ankle, and she was very supportive."
"Well, I was a bit shocked, but she's twenty-one, so she's old enough to decide, even though it's permanent, I support her choice, even though, you know, it's going to last forever and ever."humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“I noticed at about 5 pm last night that I didn’t have any meetings or conference calls scheduled today, so I decided to take the day off. I went to Trader Joe's this morning. Bought some flowers for the apartment. I think I’ll get a haircut later. Maybe drop some stuff off at the Goodwill. So, yeah… not a lot going on here.”humansofnyI found out last night that HONY Stories debuted at #1 on the New York Times Bestseller List! Thank you so much for your continued support. Thanks to all of you who continue to make Humans of New York a part of your day. Thanks for the millions you’ve given to the charities we’ve supported. Thanks for the kindness you’ve shown me. And most importantly-- thanks for the compassion that you continue to show toward the subjects on the blog. I’m not sure how to adequately express my gratitude, but I do want to assure you that I don’t take your support for granted. I’m constantly asking myself how I can be doing a better job at this. I feel like HONY is getting better. I’ve certainly matured as a person over the past five years, and I hope the work has matured as well. Thanks for giving me the time, the acceptance, the resources, and occasionally the forgiveness to figure this all out. I hope we have many more years of sharing these stories. Because I truly love this work.humansofny“I don’t think I’ll stay in the city much longer. Everything is so expensive that it’s just too hard to get by. We came here because we felt that we’d exhausted all the opportunities in the town that we grew up in. We’d already built a reputation locally and played in all the bars. So we decided to move to New York so we could continue growing. I guess I imagined that there would be a sort of domino effect. People would hear about us, start coming to our shows, and things would really bloom from there. But it’s been a much slower process than I expected. It’s really hard to stand out in the city because there are thousands of bands here competing for attention. You learn pretty quickly that an RSVP on Facebook doesn’t mean the person is actually going to show up.”humansofny“My dad left us at a very young age and my mom didn’t know English. We never had anyone to help us with our homework. My stepfather beat us every day. Sometimes he’d whip us with extension cords. When I was thirteen, I threw a brick at him and broke one of his ribs so I had to run away. I moved into a crack house where they let you sleep there if you helped sell drugs. I live in the shelter now. I’ve spent over twenty years of my life in prison. I want my son to have a different life than me, but I can’t even help him with his homework. I don’t know my times tables or anything.”humansofny“I met John in India while studying in a Hindi language program. He did all sorts of exciting things. He was from San Francisco and worked for all these super lefty politicians. In his twenties, he pretended to be a teenager so he could go back to high school and write an article about it. He did philanthropic work in African rain forests. Life with him was like a long vacation. Every day was an adventure. He’d literally wake up every morning and say: ‘Today’s an adventure.’ We dated for nine years. But he didn’t want to get married. He didn’t want to have kids. And even though he wanted to save humanity on a macro scale, he just wasn’t that warm. I never felt like I could come home in a way. So eventually I ended it. I met my current husband online. He was ‘all in’ from the very beginning. He doesn’t live in a rainforest, but he feels like home. If my sister sends me a picture of my niece wearing huge sunglasses, he doesn’t roll his eyes. He laughs even harder than I do.”humansofny“I met Mom when I was 14. I needed a new home so the agency set up a meeting. I’d been in many foster homes at that point. The caseworker knew that I was very shy, so she encouraged me to speak up during the meeting. But I didn’t know what to say. I’d been abused so much at that point, the only thing I could think to ask was: ‘Are you good?’”humansofny“I found myself in my forties and I’d never had children. And one night I was watching a show on television, and it was talking about how many older children are in foster care, and I decided it was something I should do. I work now as a counselor who advises families considering older adoptions. So many foster children get returned to the system when they hit their teenage years because the parents have unrealistic expectations. People expect foster children to be grateful and well behaved and respectful. But many of these children have been traumatized, abandoned, and hurt. They are going to push your buttons just like any other teenager, and they are going to force you to deal with your own issues. It requires a lot of patience to give them the time, support, and space to process their life.”humansofny“I’m studying to be a rabbi. I’m a little worried that I’ll be out of a job because less and less people seem to find religion meaningful. It’s getting to the point where it seems crazy or stupid for someone my age to believe in God. I see God most in my relationships with other people. Victor Hugo said that ‘to love another person is to see the face of God.’ I think our capacity to love is uniquely human and naturally connects us to something higher than ourselves. I even think that loving a baseball team can be a religious experience. I was here in 2012 when Santana pitched his no hitter. Everyone in this stadium was holding their breath at the exact same time. And when the game ended, everyone screamed with the same joy. We all felt so connected at that moment. And I think that was holy. That’s the feeling I want to create in my synagogue.”humansofny“I’ve been so lucky to have two wonderful men in my life. My first husband died when I was 55. For six months, I did nothing but work, come home, feed the cats, and go to sleep. It got to the point where I realized that I was either going to rejoin the living, or I was going to crawl in a hole and die. I mentioned to a friend that I was about ready to ‘get out there’ again, and she told me about a friend named Ted that she wanted me to meet. He was also a widower. I never thought I’d fall in love again. Certainly not that quickly. But Ted and I got along so well that two months later we were engaged. Ted has never felt threatened by my love for my first husband. On the ten-year anniversary of his death, Ted helped me organize a memorial. And that meant so much to me. But he doesn’t come to Mets' games with me. He’s a Yankees fan.”humansofny“We met on a dating site two years ago. We go on all sorts of adventures. We went to a Grateful Dead concert in Chicago. We went to San Francisco and walked across the Golden Gate Bridge. We went to a great jazz concert near Central Park. Now we’re having a Mets' game adventure. Our names are Sue and Stu. So whenever I post a picture of us on Facebook, which is a lot, at the end I put: #sueandstu #adventure.”humansofny“I can take your immune system and transplant it into a mouse that I’ve genetically engineered to have no immune system of it’s own, so that I can model the genetics of your immune system and find immunoregulatory defects that will determine how you are going to respond to the cellular therapy needed to treat your disease.”humansofny“I dropped out of college when I was nineteen, and now I’m going back at the age of thirty. I didn’t think I needed a degree for the longest time. I travelled a lot, and I've always been employed. But it’s just gotten too embarrassing to keep explaining why I don’t have a degree. It’s a deal breaker with most women at this age. They might spend the night with me, but they won’t call me in the morning. So I’m going back. But I’m much more focused now. I’m impatient. I’m the oldest one in my class, so I don’t even want to socialize. I have no interest in getting a beer with you after class. Unless you’re good at trigonometry.”humansofny"I lost my ID twenty years ago, and haven't been able to get a new one, so technically I don't exist. But for the record--- I do exist, my name is Paul Ambrose, I was born on July 4th, 1948, I grew up in Tennessee, and on the day Martin Luther King was killed, I said 'fuck this shit' and bought a bus ticket to New York because it was $20 cheaper than a ticket to California."humansofny“When I was first learning to drive as a teenager, it was a completely different experience depending upon whether my father or mother was in the passenger seat. My mother was calm, so I was able to make good decisions. But my father criticized everything I did, so I overthought everything and would end up making mistakes. And that’s what my marriage was like. I based all of my decisions on how my wife would respond. Once we got divorced I moved into a small apartment. And the first morning at my new place, I slept until 11 AM. I hadn’t done that in years. And it felt great.”humansofny“We were two incompatible people, and I made my share of mistakes, but it just seemed like nothing could ever make her happy. I sensed that she was upset even on the night of our wedding. She had just met my parents for the first time, and my dad was a scientist, and he showed slides from my childhood where the whole family was wearing mismatched plaids. She was a sophisticated Southern California girl, and I think that it began to dawn on her that I didn’t fit her idea of a Prince Charming. After that it was twenty-eight years of going downhill. We should have ended it. But both of us came from a religion that taught us if you went to church together, and prayed together, then everything would fix itself. But nothing I did made her happy. She wanted a house, so I bought a house and spent one thousand hours remodeling it. She claimed that I had no style, so I tried to wear new clothes. I tried dying my hair. She complained that I didn’t know how to dance, so I privately took dance lessons for two years. But when I finally surprised her by taking her out to dance, she was unimpressed. I even went to a hypnotherapist to try to be more exciting. But in the end, she basically said: ‘You’re a great father and a nice guy. You’re just too boring.’’humansofny“I got into a very desperate situation last year. I was under a lot of stress because my dad was in the hospital with a terminal illness. I didn’t have much income, my credit was bad, and I needed a new place to live. So I responded to a listing on Craigslist. And because of my desperation, I ended up living with a hoarder. I was completely despondent. So for the next two days, I walked around New York and asked hundreds of people to say a prayer for me. Or if they didn’t want to pray, I asked them to say something nice to me. Most people just said: ‘God bless you’ or ‘I hope things work out.’ I asked priests, monks, bank tellers, security guards, homeless people, mentally ill people… everyone. I’d say that I approached about 200 people. Then at the end of the two days, a post from a friend popped on my newsfeed. It said: ‘I have an empty room and need someone to move in today.’ So one of those prayers worked. I’m just not sure which one it was.”humansofnyReviews are just starting to pour in for Luis’s performance at the book launch last night. “A new era has dawned in book launches,” said the chief book launch critic of a major international newspaper. “Luis has set a new high water mark that might not be matched for decades.” Another world-renowned book launch critic, known for her unrelenting cynicism, could not help but gush: “It might have been the best knock-knock joke that I’ve ever heard—hilarious, yet nuanced, and ultimately hopeful. And that brain teaser kept me awake all night!” The event culminated with a special surprise from Ricky Syers, who presented Luis with his very own marionette, who quickly made friends with Mooshe The Guinea Pig. Mooshe was also praised by critics for a “quiet, understated performance that helped highlight the forceful brilliance of Luis.”humansofny"I want to design Lego sets. I already have two ideas: 'Attack On The Bat Cave' and 'Attack Of The Supervillians.'"humansofnyIT’S RELEASE DAY! HONY Stories is now available wherever books are sold. Always a fun day because I get to see the pictures and posts pour in from everyone who’s book just arrived on their doorstep. Hope you guys love it. I gave it everything I had. For anyone who hasn’t gotten a copy yet and would prefer to remain on the couch, the book can be ordered online for 40% off. LINK IN BIO.humansofny“I had one friend, but he went to the next grade. To make a friend, you have to talk to them which can be very hard. Most of the time, when I try to talk to them, I fail. Everyone thinks I’m a geek. I want to be a lawyer when I grow up. But just a defense lawyer. Because I’m much better at defending people than I am at accusing people. But I’d only want to defend kind people. You can tell if someone is kind by their aura. Plus, I’m smart. I know so many math facts. Ask me any math fact. Do you want a strategy for multiplying double digit numbers? If you want, I can teach you a strategy for multiplying double digit numbers.” --------- Luis will be co-hosting the HONY Stories Book Launch tomorrow night at the Union Square Barnes and Noble. I don’t want to shoot off ALL our fireworks before the event, but Luis tells me there is a high probability that he will warm up the crowd with at least one knock-knock joke, as well as a particularly challenging brain teaser. There is also an 87.4 percent probability that Moochie The Guinea Pig will join us on stage. Luis also claims that he will ‘easily’ sign more books than me, but seeing that it’s a school night, I’m forced to question if he possesses the requisite endurance to back up such wild claims. We shall see. The event starts at 6PM, but capacity for the store is 1,000 people. So Barnes and Noble will be giving out wristbands beginning at 9 AM to anyone who purchases a book. Looking forward to seeing everyone who can make it.humansofny“Luis is different. He’s got two moms. He’s an old soul. We live in the projects, and he doesn’t know who Michael Jordan is, or anything about rap music. He dresses himself in the morning. He chooses a button down and slacks, and sits in the kitchen with his legs crossed and reads the newspaper. But he’s still got the heart of a child. Yesterday he had $5 to buy himself a Halloween costume, and he saw a boy he knew while he was walking to the store, and he chose to buy him a costume instead. I always tell him: ‘You’re different, Luis. And that’s OK.’ When he wants to play, I walk him all the way down to Central Park, because I don’t really want him to change.”humansofny"He likes when I give him hugs."humansofny“I never imagined that I’d be happily married. My parents weren’t happily married. And not many of my parents’ friends were happily married. I’m sure they had been happy together at first. But it didn’t seem to last, so I assumed the same thing would happen to me. I just got lucky and fell in love with a genuinely nice man. He’s a great father. He sees the best in people. He’s not mean. I can’t really say that we were always happy, because happiness comes in spurts. Sometimes the stress of your career makes it hard to be a good partner. Or the disappointment you feel from not achieving personal goals. But there was never a time that I thought we were going to leave each other. And even today I still feel those spurts of happiness with him. Like when we laugh at something and I remember the times that we used to laugh a lot more together. Or when we find ourselves particularly engaged in a conversation, and I realize that after all these years, we’re still finding new things to talk about.”humansofny“My mother was a school principal. A lot of times she worked until 8 pm, so my grandfather would always pick me up from elementary school and help me with my homework. He loved to help me with school because I was his first grandchild to get an education. He especially loved book reports. He always insisted that we decorate the cover of the report in case we needed an extra bump in our grade. If it was a Halloween book report, he’d make a witch out of toilet paper and straws. He always told me that it was his dream to see me finish college. But the day before I graduated high school, his hand started shaking and he dropped a bowl of cereal while we were eating breakfast. It turned out he had a major stroke. He was minimally responsive after that but we kept him on life support. We thought if we prayed hard enough and believed enough, he would recover. He held on for a few years. I ended up going to the Fashion Institute of Technology, and I’d stop in every once in awhile and tell him about my grades. Toward the end, he grew very sick and blind, and his body was rejecting food. I finally graduated from FIT, and I brought him my graduation photos. Even though he couldn’t see them, I described the graduation to him. He died that night.”humansofny“I try to come out here in the mornings before work. I know what it’s like to be hungry and not have a voice. I grew up 50 years ago in the housing projects of London. We didn’t starve, but a lot of times we had nothing for dinner but beans, or maybe some ham on toast. So I went to bed hungry a lot. And when you’re a kid, you don’t really have a say in the matter. So I feed the animals because they can’t really tell you if they’re hungry. I’m not changing the fucking world. But it’s better than not doing it.”humansofny“Before my bone marrow transplant, I had to have my immune system completely wiped out with chemotherapy. I went into the hospital thinking that I was going to do a lot of reading and watch old movies and catch up on work. One thing that I didn’t fully anticipate was the isolation that I’d feel. I knew I’d be physically isolated. The doctors and nurses wore masks so all I could see were their eyes. And nobody touched me unless they were administering medicine. But the pain and weakness brought me to a place where I felt completely alone. I got so weak that I couldn’t even formulate a thought. I dropped to 115 lbs. The pain got so bad that I felt like I’d swallowed a blowtorch. At one point I actually gave up. I made everyone leave my room, even my partner, and I started slipping away. I hallucinated my mother’s voice calling my name. I heard it very distinctly. But when I opened my eyes-- it was my nurse Jenny that was calling me. At the point of my greatest isolation, it was almost as if my mother used Jenny’s voice to call me back.”humansofny“We’re on the slow plan to get over her terrible beginnings. She has a lot of PTSD. She was born in a kill shelter so she spent the first four months of her life in a cage. She’s terrified of the outside world. When I first brought her home, she wouldn’t even leave her carrier for the first three days. I had to buy a white noise box and insulate the whole apartment because she was so scared of noise. It took us a whole year before I could get her to leave the apartment. But now there are some mornings when she even asks to go outside. She tends to change her mind once we get to the elevator, but I always give her time to regroup, and she’s happy when we finally get outside. It’s so great to see her enjoy the outdoors. The happiness may only stick for a few moments at a time, but it’s so great to see.”humansofny“Not long ago it looked like I was about to get everything. I was one of the first employees at a company that sold for a billion dollars. So I started a new company, and everything seemed to be going perfectly, but suddenly everything came apart. This has been the toughest year of my adult life. I went bankrupt, my company failed, and a person I loved died. I didn’t commit suicide—though I considered it. But my ideas of myself have definitely died. I thought I was better than everyone. I saw my success as the culmination of all my positive merits. Losing everything forced me to realize how much of my good fortune was due to things that had been given to me.”humansofny“My friend and I played on the same team since we were seven years old. In middle school we won the state championship together. I had 37 points. The head coach for Penn State was there, and he pulled us both aside after the game and told us that he wanted us to come play for Penn State. But I lost focus in high school. I started hanging out with friends and partying. Soon I was missing practice and the coach wouldn’t put me in the game. I got frustrated and quit my junior year. But my friend was more determined. He was always the first one at practice and the last one to leave. He always did what the coach told him. Now he starts for Villanova. And I’m back out here. I haven’t given up though. Maybe I can play overseas.”humansofny“The first ten seconds after meeting someone new is like a valley of death for me. I don’t know how to get through it. A lot of times I’ll have a plan of something to say, like: ‘You have nice socks.’ Or maybe something nice about their hair. But the plan never works because my mind goes blank and I freeze. If the person is more outgoing than me, a lot of times they will bail me out. But if we’re both shy, we just stare at each other until one of us leaves. Recently I had an idea that I could pretend like I’m an actor playing a role. Maybe it would be easier to talk to people if I imagined I was a guy named Bill. But that didn’t work. I wasn’t very good at being Bill either.”humansofny“I work at a tech start-up. We design sailing drones. I was the tech guy but my cofounder quit and moved to Singapore. So I just bought three suits at a Brooks Brothers outlet, and now I’m the CEO.”humansofny“I was a maintenance man for fifteen years. But then my mother got cancer and she needed somebody with her all the time. I had to cook for her, clean her, help with her medicine--- everything. I ended up losing my job because I’d missed so many days of work. But by that time, I started to realize that I was really good at taking care of people. So now I’m studying to be a registered nurse.”humansofnyHONY Stories comes out in less than one week! I’ve already said a lot about the merits of the book. So I want to take a quick opportunity to remind everyone that HONY is advertisement free and almost entirely financed by book sales. (The only exception being income from a handful of speeches I give every year.) Proceeds from books have been used to pay for trips to twenty different countries over the past year alone. Even when working with large organizations like the United Nations or UNHCR, I’m always very careful to cover all costs and reimburse any expenses. I do this so that the content on HONY can remain entirely independent, self-directed, and transparent. By purchasing a book, you can help HONY continue to grow in a way that remains focused on telling people’s stories--- and nothing else. Thanks to everyone for your continued support. HONY: Stories can be preordered now for 40% off. LINK IN BIO.humansofnyThanks to everyone for following along these last two weeks as we learned the stories of refugees migrating across Europe. I hope that you’ve learned along with me that each refugee carries a tragically unique story often filled with violence and fear. Many of you have asked about the best way to help. There are plenty of wonderful NGOs working to assist refugees, but you cannot go wrong supporting the UNHCR. Money donated to the UNHCR goes directly to providing food, water, and shelter to desperate people. The UNHCR is on the ground all over the world, often in dangerous and difficult places, providing essentials to people who have no government or state to protect them. This is why the UNHCR has won two Nobel Peace Prizes. Currently the resources of the UNHCR are stretched to the limit, and sometimes the organization is only able to make a tissue thin difference. But often it is the difference between life and death.

Quite wonderfully and coincidentally, Kickstarter launched a campaign this morning to support the UNHCR. It’s the very first charity campaign that Kickstarter has ever done. I encourage anyone wishing to make a difference in the refugee crisis to donate there: kickstarter.com/aidrefugeeshumansofny“I’m sixty-two years old. I was a government clerk in Baghdad. I heard from a neighbor that one of the militias was planning to kill me. The militia thought I was passing along information to the government. It wasn’t true, but these are not educated people. They don’t have rules. They don’t listen to reason. I had to leave or they would kill me. I couldn’t afford to bring my family with me. I didn’t even say goodbye. I snuck away in the middle of the night because I couldn’t stand to see my children cry. I’m all alone here. I look around, and I see everyone else with their families. I only have one cot.” (Salzburg, Austria)humansofny“I lived in Mosul for five months under ISIS. I tried to avoid trouble but one of my neighbors reported me for shaving my beard. They came to my house while I was sleeping. My mother answered the door and they pushed her out of the way and dragged me out of bed. They asked me why I’d shaved my beard. I didn’t know what to tell them. They dragged me into the center of the city and made me kneel next to five other men. They called out on loudspeakers for everyone to come and watch. A large crowd gathered. The faces in the crowd seemed sad but they had no choice but to watch. ‘These men are atheists,’ they said. ‘And they will be punished.’ They took off my shirt and put a blindfold on me. They said that anyone who tried to go to the hospital afterward would be killed. I was the fifth one to be whipped. I could hear the men before me scream out in strange voices. When the first lash hit me, the pain was so bad that it felt like my soul left my body. They lashed me twelve times. I lost consciousness before it ended and woke up in bed.” (Salzburg, Austria)humansofny“They told me to meet them at a certain address with the money. It was an old abandoned house. They told me to wait for a silver car to come, and to throw the money inside. After a few minutes a car came. I threw the money inside and it drove off. Soon another car pulled up, the door opened, and my son was thrown out. I didn’t believe it was my son. It was like I was born again. I picked him up and I started running and I didn’t stop until I reached a place full of people. Both of us cried as I ran.” (Hegyeshalom, Hungary) (3/3)humansofny“After they took our son, my wife was so weak that she couldn’t get out of bed. For days I walked around Baghdad like a crazy man. I could not sleep. I walked from early in the morning to late at night. I thought maybe I’d recognize the car if I saw it again. Every day I picked a new neighborhood. I kept my phone in my hand hoping that someone would call. Every few seconds I’d check the screen. Soon I lost hope. I was sure that I’d lost my son. Then after one week an envelope came to the house with a phone number inside. I called the number and a man told me that he had my son. He said he wanted a large amount of money. He said if I called the police, my son would die. It took me twenty days to get the money together. I sold the house. I borrowed money from relatives. Days would pass between phone calls. I kept begging for more time. They kept changing SIM cards so I couldn’t call back. When I finally got the money, I told them I was ready to meet, but I demanded to speak to my son. I told them: ‘Please, I need to hear his voice. I need to hear his voice.’ Then suddenly I heard my son’s voice on the phone. He sounded very scared. He said: ‘Dad?’ Then the phone was disconnected.” (Hegyeshalom, Hungary) (2/3)humansofny“Every month we had to go to Baghdad to get my son’s eyes treated. When we went for his last appointment, the hospital was very crowded so we decided to go back to the hotel and wait. We walked out into the street and waited for a taxi. A car pulled up and stopped. We thought it was the police. Two men with guns jumped out and asked for our ID cards, then they pushed us into the car. After a few hundred meters, my wife and I were tossed into the street. But they kept my son.” (Hegyeshalom, Hungary) (1/3)humansofny“I studied to be a teacher, but I’m young, so I knew I’d be forced to fight. I don’t like fighting. I don’t like blood. But I was the only one working so I couldn’t leave or my family would go hungry. But my mother begged me to leave. She kissed my feet. She said she wouldn’t mind starving if she knew that I was safe. I hired a smuggler but he took all my money and left me at the border. He told me that he’d call me when the passage was safe, but then he turned off his phone. I was all alone and stuck without money. I called my mother and she said that she’d pray for God to send someone to help me. Then I met this man. I told him my story and he loaned me the money I needed to get to Europe. He treated me like one of his family. I'll pay him back when I get to Germany, but until then I'm trying to return the favor by helping him carry his children.” (Vienna, Austria)humansofny“My father loved children. But I was his favorite because I was the small one. Whenever we did something wrong, everyone else got punished except for me. When I was fifteen, he took us on a shopping trip to Baghdad, and he told us to wait in the car while he ran into a market. We heard a loud explosion. We got out of the car and ran toward the sound. Body parts were everywhere. My father’s body was lying on the ground with his head split open. Part of his brain was on the street. I was young and naïve. I remember thinking: ‘It will be OK. He just needs an operation.’” (Vienna, Austria)humansofny“The army searched our house six times. The first two times they knocked on the door. The next four times they kicked in the door in the middle of the night. They hit my wife. They shocked me with an electric baton. And my children had to witness all of this. The psychology of my children changed before my eyes. I stopped getting hugs and kisses. They used to watch cartoons and play normal games. Now they only played games related to war. They’d chase each other around the house, shouting: ‘I’m going to kill you!’ I tried buying them an educational kit with cardboard squares and triangles and circles. When I left the room, they broke the shapes and turned them into guns.” (Hegyeshalom, Hungary)humansofny“I work at the UNHCR, but I have a quite junior position. I have a desk job where I reach out to job candidates and try to get them to consider UNHCR. But whenever there’s an emergency, anyone who has a useful skill is sent to the field. This is my first emergency mission. My father is Iranian so I speak a little bit of Farsi. I didn’t realize how useful that could be. Yesterday I was helping an Afghan woman carry her child across the Serbian border, and I was explaining to her what she could expect when we arrived. She was so comforted by the little information I could offer. I’ve seen so many faces light up just because they heard “Welcome To Croatia” in their mother tongue. I'm thankful for my desk job, but this is why I joined the UNHCR.” (Tovarnik, Croatia)humansofny“I used to work as civil engineer in Nepal. I worked on government projects: bridges, roads, things like that. But I was sitting in my office one day in 2004, watching television coverage of the tsunami that hit Indonesia, and I realized that government work was not the best use of my abilities. So I joined the UN and helped build 380 schools in Indonesia. Then when the earthquake hit Haiti, I moved there and began building shelters. Any engineer could do this work. But there just weren’t many available. So all I did was make myself available. Now I’m working with the UNHCR to construct camps for refugees. The first priorities are basics: shelter, health, food, water, and toilet access. My next priority is to respect the dignity of the refugees. When they arrive, they are very anxious, so I want to make sure they feel like they have a place. We leave four meters of space between every tent. We also leave the camp open so they can enter and leave whenever they like. And I added this cover over the entry way, because I wanted to be sure they were shaded the moment they walk in.” (Lesvos, Greece)humansofny“I saw the army burn my neighbor’s house. They set it on fire and took photographs while it burned. The next day I saw the same house on TV, except the headline claimed that it had been destroyed by ‘terrorists.’ The army began to arrest 300 people every day. They were arresting everyone. They came for me during Ramadan. I was eating with my entire family when suddenly we heard the sound of a car outside. Soldiers kicked down the door and they tied my hands behind my back. My children were screaming. The soldiers said: ‘We know you are working with the opposition! You are a terrorist!’ I told them: ‘Please. We are poor people. We have done nothing. We are trying to live.’ I never thought I’d see my family again. They brought me to the prison and blindfolded me. They made me kneel on the floor. They asked me questions about the opposition, but I knew nothing. When they asked me a question, I only had two seconds to answer before I was kicked. They beat me for hours while they questioned me. I begged them to stop. I kept promising that I would tell them if I heard anything. Then they attached cables to my body. They would run electricity through me for 25 seconds, then they would stop, and they would ask another question. When I said: ‘I don’t know,’ the electricity would start again. They kept me for three days. When they finally let me go, I couldn’t stand. I went home and hugged my family but I had to go straight to work. Because there was no food in the house and no one had eaten for days.” (Lesvos, Greece)humansofny“I worked as a waiter in Saudi Arabia for seven years to save money so that I could build a house in Syria. It only had two rooms and a bathroom, but for me it was paradise. We lived there for about twenty years. We did not want to leave. We have young children and no money to travel. But it became impossible to live. Our house was situated between the army and the opposition. Every day the army knocked on our door, and said: ‘Help us or we will kill you.’ They came to the restaurant where I worked and accused us of feeding the enemy. We hid in the cellar while they beat the manager. If the opposition managed to capture our village, we would also be killed. They would accuse us of collaborating with the army. We had no options. Minding our own business was not a choice. We left with nothing but our clothes.” (Lesvos, Greece)humansofny“When I joined the Syrian army, there was no war yet. I just wanted to serve my country. But now everyone is forced to do horrible things. One time we were marching and a single bullet came from a village. Our commander told us to go into each house, one by one, and kill everyone inside. The village was a Sunni village, so our commander ordered all the Sunni soldiers to lead the attack. Anyone who disobeyed would be killed themselves. We did our best to aim over the heads of the people who were running away, but forty people were killed. A few nights later I fled in the middle of the night.” (Lesvos, Greece)humansofny“I’m working as an interpreter. I know what these people are going through. My family fled Afghanistan because the Taliban wanted to kill my father. I arrived in Greece fifteen years ago. We came across a river from Turkey. We tried to walk at night but we knew that we’d been caught because we kept seeing red lasers pointed at us. We saw the glow of night vision goggles through the trees. But nobody approached us, so we thought that maybe we had been mistaken, and we kept walking. Eventually we came upon a car along the road that had driven into a ditch. The lights were on and the doors were open. We thought somebody might be hurt inside, so everyone ran toward the car. But it was a trap. The police came swarming out of the trees. I’d been told many times that they’d beat us when they found us. But it was even worse than I imagined. They treated us like animals. They wore masks and gloves because they were afraid to even touch us. It was like we weren’t human.” (Kos, Greece)humansofny“This is the man who inspired us to begin helping refugees. We met Father Stratis back in 2008, when refugees began arriving on the island from Afghanistan. We ran a minimarket at the time, and every day this priest would come in to buy juice, croissants, and other supplies to hand out. Eventually we began to follow his lead, and soon we were working side by side. I always joke that God punished me for my atheism by sending a priest to be my best friend. He was always pushing us to do more. The phone never left his hand. He was always looking for new ways to help. He died last month, but even in his final days, he was searching for diapers from his hospital bed. His final post on Facebook said: ‘God is love, without asterisks.’” (Lesvos, Greece) (2/2)humansofny“In the past four months alone, we’ve had twelve thousand refugees stop here. We know because we’ve counted the sandwiches that we’ve handed out. They show up battered and beaten. We set up this rest area along the road to hand out sandwiches, juice, and water. One night we had one thousand people here. You could see nothing but heads. We’re not professionals, just volunteers. The families break our heart the most. They show up with no money, no papers, and no hotels. Sometimes it’s raining and they have nothing but cardboard over their heads. They have nothing for their children, and we know how hard it is to raise kids even in standard conditions. Our son hasn’t seen very much of us recently. Even when we are together, the phone is always ringing and we are absent in mind. Recently he asked if we could build a big boat and send the refugees somewhere that there is no war.” (Lesvos, Greece) (1/2)humansofny“A friend called me at work and told me that a sniper had shot my youngest brother. I rushed to the clinic and he was lying there with a bandage on his head. I unwrapped the bandage to help treat the wound with alcohol, and small pieces of brain were stuck to it. The doctor told me: ‘Unless you get him to Damascus, he will die.’ I panicked. The road to Damascus went straight through Raqqa and was very dangerous. It took ten hours, because we could only take back roads and we had to drive very far out of the way. My brother was in the back seat, and after a very short time he started to vomit bile. Water was pouring from his eyes. I didn’t know what to do. I was so scared. I thought for sure he was dying. But somehow I got him to the hospital. He’s paralyzed now and his speech is slow. His memory is OK. He can remember old things. He needs an operation in his eye. We used to do everything together, and now he can’t do anything. He can only move his hand. I’m trying to get him to Germany because I hear that maybe the doctors there can help him.”
(Lesvos, Greece)humansofnyThe extent to which refugee children have been conditioned by their environment is heartbreaking. We wanted permission to take this young girl’s photograph, so we asked if her mother was nearby. Her eyes filled with the most uncontrollable fear that I’ve ever seen in a child. ‘Why do you want my mother?’ she asked. Later, her parents told us how the family had crouched in the woods while soldiers ransacked their house in Syria. More recently they’d been chased through the woods by Turkish police. After we’d spent a few minutes talking with her parents, she returned to being a child and could not stop hugging us, and laughing, and saying ‘I love you so much.’ But I went to sleep that night remembering the terror on her face when we first asked to speak to her mother.
(Lesvos, Greece)humansofny“ISIS looks for any reason to punish you. If they saw me with my face shaved, they’d punish me. If they saw me with these jeans, they’d punish me. Two of them walked into my electronics shop, and they asked me why my beard was so short. I tried to make an excuse about having just returned from vacation, but they said: ‘Come with us.’ I begged them to forgive me, but they took me to the judge and I was sentenced to three days of digging tunnels at the airport. They told me that they’d come get me when it was time. When they came to my house, I was hiding, so they took my neighbors instead. Everyone they took that day was killed by American planes.” (Lesvos, Greece)humansofny“My father was a farmer and we had eight siblings. I went to Australia when I was fifteen because my family didn’t have enough to eat. I was on a boat for forty days. When I got there, I couldn’t find a job, I couldn’t speak English, and I had to sleep on the street. I know what it’s like. So everyday I drive the van to the port and hand out bread to the refugees. My son is my business partner. He says, ‘Baba, please. It’s fine to help. But not every day.’ But I still go every day because I know what it feels like to have nothing.” (Kos, Greece)humansofny“Everyone here has been very nice to us. When we got to the beach, there were people there who gave us food and a hug. A priest even gave us this carpet to pray on. He told us: ‘We have the same God.’” (Lesvos, Greece) (2/2)humansofny“There is no security in Baghdad. We lived in constant fear. We started receiving text messages one day. They said: ‘Give us money, or we will burn down your house. If you tell the police, we will kill you.’ We had nobody to turn to. We are poor people. We have no powerful friends. We don’t know anyone in the government. The text messages continued every day. We were so afraid that we could not sleep. We had no money to give them. We could barely afford to feed ourselves. So we said to ourselves: ‘Maybe they are lying. Maybe they will do nothing.’ Then one night we woke up and our house was on fire. We barely escaped with the children. The next day we received a text message. It said: ‘Give us money, or this time you will die.’ I replied that we’d pay them soon. We sold everything we owned, and we left. We thought we'd rather die in a plastic boat than die there.” (Lesvos, Greece) (1/2)humansofny“I wish I could have done more for her. Her life has been nothing but struggle. She hasn’t known many happy moments. She never had a chance to taste childhood. When we were getting on the plastic boat, I heard her say something that broke my heart. She saw her mother being crushed by the crowd, and she screamed: 'Please don't kill my mother! Kill me instead!'" (Lesvos, Greece)humansofny“My husband and I sold everything we had to afford the journey. We worked 15 hours a day in Turkey until we had enough money to leave. The smuggler put 152 of us on a boat. Once we saw the boat, many of us wanted to go back, but he told us that anyone who turned back would not get a refund. We had no choice. Both the lower compartment and the deck were filled with people. Waves began to come into the boat so the captain told everyone to throw their baggage into the sea. In the ocean we hit a rock, but the captain told us not to worry. Water began to come into the boat, but again he told us not to worry. We were in the lower compartment and it began to fill with water. It was too tight to move. Everyone began to scream. We were the last ones to get out alive. My husband pulled me out of the window. In the ocean, he took off his life jacket and gave it to a woman. We swam for as long as possible. After several hours he told me he that he was too tired to swim and that he was going to float on his back and rest. It was so dark we could not see. The waves were high. I could hear him calling me but he got further and further away. Eventually a boat found me. They never found my husband.” (Kos, Greece)humansofnyFor context on the upcoming stories, it is important to understand the ‘plastic boat.’ The plastic boat is a central figure in the story of almost every refugee coming to Europe via Turkey. Every day, thousands of people arrive to the Greek islands on these boats. They represent one of the only ways that refugees can bypass immigration restrictions and throw themselves at the feet of Europe. The journey is extremely dangerous and many have drowned in the past few months. Despite paying Turkish smugglers $1500 per person, the refugees are loaded into boats that are filled to many times their capacity. The boats usually leave at night to avoid detection. Often the refugees arrive carrying nothing but horror stories. Unfortunately there is little waiting for them on the other side. If they are lucky, a handful of volunteers will meet them on the beach with a bottle of water. In Lesvos, where this photo was taken, the refugees will then begin a 50-mile walk to the port where they can register. The UNHCR and several NGOs are scrambling to provide bare necessities, but their resources are stretched to capacity. They can offer little beyond a guarantee of survival. The initial elation of the refugees at having reached Europe will quickly subside as many realize they cannot even afford the price of a ferry to get off the island.humansofny“After one month, I arrived in Austria. The first day I was there, I walked into a bakery and met a man named Fritz Hummel. He told me that forty years ago he had visited Syria and he’d been treated well. So he gave me clothes, food, everything. He became like a father to me. He took me to the Rotary Club and introduced me to the entire group. He told them my story and asked: ‘How can we help him?’ I found a church, and they gave me a place to live. Right away I committed myself to learning the language. I practiced German for 17 hours a day. I read children's stories all day long. I watched television. I tried to meet as many Austrians as possible. After seven months, it was time to meet with a judge to determine my status. I could speak so well at this point, that I asked the judge if we could conduct the interview in German. He couldn't believe it. He was so impressed that I’d already learned German, that he interviewed me for only ten minutes. Then he pointed at my Syrian ID card and said: ‘Muhammad, you will never need this again. You are now an Austrian!’” (Kos, Greece) (6/6)humansofny“The island we landed on was called Samothrace. We were so thankful to be there. We thought we’d reached safety. We began to walk toward the police station to register as refugees. We even asked a man on the side of the road to call the police for us. I told the other refugees to let me speak for them, since I spoke English. Suddenly two police jeeps came speeding toward us and slammed on the brakes. They acted like we were murderers and they’d been searching for us. They pointed guns at us and screamed: ‘Hands up!’ I told them: ‘Please, we just escaped the war, we are not criminals!’ They said: ‘Shut up, Malaka!’ I will never forget this word: ‘Malaka, Malaka, Malaka.’ It was all they called us. They threw us into prison. Our clothes were wet and we could not stop shivering. We could not sleep. I can still feel this cold in my bones. For three days we had no food or water. I told the police: ‘We don’t need food, but please give us water.’ I begged the commander to let us drink. Again, he said: ‘Shut up, Malaka!’ I will remember this man’s face for the rest of my life. He had a gap in his teeth so he spit on us when he spoke. He chose to watch seven people suffer from thirst for three days while they begged him for water. We were saved when they finally they put us on a boat and sent us to a camp on the mainland. For twelve days we stayed there before walking north. We walked for three weeks. I ate nothing but leaves. Like an animal. We drank from dirty rivers. My legs grew so swollen that I had to take off my shoes. When we reached the border, an Albanian policeman found us and asked if we were refugees. When we told him ‘yes,’ he said that he would help us. He told us to hide in the woods until nightfall. I did not trust this man, but I was too tired to run. When night came, he loaded us all into his car. Then he drove us to his house and let us stay there for one week. He bought us new clothes. He fed us every night. He told me: ‘Do not be ashamed. I have also lived through a war. You are now my family and this is your house too.’” (Kos, Greece) (5/6)humansofny“After I told my father that I’d made it to Europe, I wanted nothing more than to turn that lie into the truth. I found a smuggler and told him my story. He acted like he cared very much and wanted to help me. He told me that for 1000 Euros, he could get me to a Greek Island. He said: ‘I’m not like the other smugglers. I fear God. I have children of my own. Nothing bad will happen to you.’ I trusted this man. One night he called me and told me to meet him at a garage. He put me in the back of a van with twenty other people. There were tanks of gasoline back there, and we couldn’t breath. People started to scream and vomit. The smuggler pulled out a gun, pointed it at us, and said: ‘If you don’t shut up, I will kill you.’ He took us to a beach, and while he prepared the boat, his partner kept the gun pointed at us. The boat was made of plastic and was only three meters long. When we got on it, everyone panicked and the boat started to sink. Thirteen of the people were too scared to go. But the smuggler said that if we changed our minds, he would keep the money, so seven of us decided to go ahead. The smuggler told us that he would guide us to the island, but after a few hundred meters, he jumped off the boat and swam to shore. He told us to keep going straight. The waves got higher and higher and water began to come in the boat. It was completely black. We could see no land, no lights, only ocean. Then after thirty minutes the motor stopped. I knew we all would die. I was so scared that my thoughts completely stopped. The women started crying because none of them could swim. I lied and told them that I could swim with three people on my back. It started to rain. The boat began to turn in circles. Everyone was so frightened that nobody could speak. But one man kept trying to work on the motor, and after a few minutes it started again. I don’t remember how we reached shore. But I remember I kissed all the earth I could find. I hate the sea now. I hate it so much. I don’t like to swim it. I don’t like to look at it. I hate everything about it.” (Kos, Greece) (4/6)humansofny“For two weeks my tears didn’t stop. Nothing made sense. Why did these things happen to my family? We did everything right. Everything. We were very honest with everyone. We treated our neighbors well. We made no big mistakes. I was under so much pressure at this time. My father was in intensive care, and every day my sisters called and told me that ISIS was getting closer to our village. I went completely crazy. I fainted in the street one day and woke up in the hospital. I gave the rest of my money to a smuggler to help my sisters escape to Iraq. Now I only had 1000 Euro left and I was stranded in Turkey. My father recovered from his operation at this time. He called me and asked how I’d paid for his surgery. I told him that the money came from a friend. He asked if I had made it to Europe. For the first time ever, I lied to my father. I didn’t want him to feel guilty about his surgery. I told him that I was in Europe, and I was safe, and there was nothing to worry about.” (Kos, Greece) (3/6)humansofny“Before leaving for Europe, I went back to Syria to see my family once more. I slept in my uncle’s barn the entire time I was there, because every day the police were knocking on my father’s door. Eventually my father told me: ‘If you stay any longer, they will find you and they will kill you.’ So I contacted a smuggler and made my way to Istanbul. I was just about to leave for Europe when I received a call from my sister. She told me that my father had been very badly beaten by police, and unless I sent 5,000 Euro for an operation, he would die. That was my money to get to Europe. But what could I do? I had no choice. Then two weeks later she called with even worse news. My brother had been killed by ISIS while he was working in an oil field. They found our address on his ID card, and they sent his head to our house, with a message: ‘Kurdish people aren’t Muslims.’ My youngest sister found my brother’s head. This was one year ago. She has not spoken a single word since.” (Kos, Greece) (2/6)humansofnyI want to begin this refugee series with a post from the summer of 2014. This is Muhammad, who I first met last year in Iraqi Kurdistan. At the time, he had just fled the war in Syria and was working as a clerk at my hotel. When war broke out, he’d been studying English Literature at the University of Damascus, so his English was nearly perfect. He agreed to work as my interpreter and we spent several days interviewing refugees who were fleeing the advance of ISIS. As is evident from the quote below, I left Muhammad with the expectation that he’d soon be travelling to the United Kingdom with fake papers. I am retelling the story because I have just now reconnected with Muhammad. He will be working again as my interpreter for the next ten days. But the story he told me of what happened since we last met is tragic. (1/6) ------------------------------------------------------------- "The fighting got very bad. When I left Syria to come here, I only had $50. I was almost out of money when I got here. I met a man on the street, who took me home, and gave me food and a place to stay. But I felt so ashamed to be in his home that I spent 11 hours a day looking for jobs, and only came back to sleep. I finally found a job at a hotel. They worked me 12 hours a day, for 7 days a week. They gave me $400 a month. Now I found a new hotel now that is much better. I work 12 hours per day for $600 a month, and I get one day off. In all my free hours, I work at a school as an English teacher. I work 18 hours per day, every day. And I have not spent any of it. I have not bought even a single T-shirt. I've saved 13,000 Euro, which is how much I need to buy fake papers. There is a man I know who can get me to Europe for 13,000. I'm leaving next week. I'm going once more to Syria to say goodbye to my family, then I'm going to leave all this behind. I'm going to try to forget it all. And I'm going to finish my education." (August 2014 : Erbil, Iraq)humansofny“My wife died about ten years ago. We were anthropologists and did a lot of work in the field together. I recently brought out some of our old notebooks and went through them. They were from forty years ago. In one of them I found very detailed field notes from fourteen months we spent living together in an Indian village. Those notes stirred up a lot of memories. I don’t think I’ll go through our old notebooks again.”humansofny“Two days ago at school we learned how to play a game called chest. You have horses and pawns and bishops and castles, and you’re supposed to steal other peoples’ places by squirting your pawn diagonal and eating their pieces. If anyone else wants to learn chest, I’ll teach them.”humansofny"I've been walking dogs for 14 years now. Im the Pied Piper of dogs. I can walk five dogs in one hand, and five dogs in the other hand, and I can tell you which one needs to poop."humansofny“I was a maître d’ at a restaurant for thirteen years. But one week I got a really bad case of pneumonia that put me in the hospital. While I was lying in that hospital bed, I was thinking about how I really didn’t want to go back to work. Then that motivational speaker came on TV. You know-- the one that has all those teeth in his mouth. And he said: ‘Think back to what made you happy when you were young! That’s what you should be doing!’ Well I grew up in the country, and I always had a lot of dogs, so I thought that nothing would make me happier than to be a dog walker. But I knew I needed to distinguish myself. So I decided to make a uniform. I smoked a joint and came up with this outfit. I wanted people to look at me and think: ‘If this man is walking our dog, and there’s some sort of major disaster, he’s going to survive. He’s going to fish for those dogs. He’s going to build a bunker and shelter those dogs until it’s safe to bring them home.’ After I finished the design, I got four of my friends to wear the uniform, and we borrowed all the neighbors’ dogs, and we walked them down 5th avenue while handing out business cards. I got five customers that first day.”humansofny"I don't think my intelligence comes across very well because I tend to get overexcited about things, like a little dog. Nobody at school notices when you're reading Jane Austen. But everyone tends to notice when you get really excited about lunchtime."humansofny“I’m new to this city and I’m trying to get myself out there. I’m pretty sure I saw James Franco yesterday, which was awesome. But other than that it’s been kinda lonely. I wish more people would notice me. I’m just filled up with stories: fascinating stories, sad stories, happy stories, love stories. I know I have so much to offer but sometimes I wonder if people even see me. I sit here on this bench and they just scroll right by. Maybe they’re judging me by my cover. I’ve got to get more creative. Oh well, I’ll figure something out.” ----------------------------------------------
THREE WEEKS until HONY Stories (October 13th). Preorder now for 34% off. LINK IN BIOhumansofny"We're going to the African Festival!"
"What's the African Festival?"
"It's where Mom lets me eat my snack."humansofny"My dad doesn't express his emotions, and my mom doesn't know how to use the iPad. So when we Skype, I have to look at my dad's face while talking to my mom. It's bizarre."humansofny"I'm twenty-four, and I'm already on my third fresh start."humansofny“When you’re a teacher, you get to look down on your students’ lives from 5,000 feet. You’re allowed a certain detachment because your primary job is to encourage and inspire. You can easily tolerate your students making mistakes, or lacking direction, because you realize that kids learn through the tension of uncertainty. But when it’s your own kids, you don’t have the benefit of that detachment. You’re in the trenches because you’re the one in charge of keeping them safe. My son is impulsive, and he just got a Great Dane mix even though he’s staying in a tiny college apartment. If I were his teacher, I could laugh at that and say: ‘It’s OK, you’re just being you!’ But as his parent, there’s a lot of pressure to say: ‘Stop being you. And do this.’”humansofny“I hate pot. I hate it even more than hard drugs. I’ve taught high school for 25 years and I hate what marijuana does to my students. It goes beyond missing homework assignments. My students become less curious when they start smoking pot. I’ve seen it time and time again. People say pot makes you more creative, but from what I’ve seen, it narrows my students' minds until they only reference the world in relation to the drug. They’ll say things like: “I went to the beach and got so high,” or “I went to a concert and got so high.” They start choosing their friends based on the drug. I hate when people say that it’s just experimenting. Because from what I’ve seen, it’s when my students stop experimenting.”humansofny“I’ve dated white people. I’ve got white friends. But I firmly believe that there’s not a Caucasian man in this world who does not think he’s more intelligent than a man with darker skin. He’ll deny it. But when he’s crushed down one thousand times, and when he absolutely needs it, he will play that card to save his self-esteem vis-à-vis me. I’m not saying it’s a choice. It’s not a moral thing. I’m saying it’s a feature of his soul that he doesn’t know is there.”humansofny“I got evicted from my apartment in the summer of 2011. I was working on commission as a real estate broker, and I hadn’t made a deal in a long time. I had master keys to a bunch of vacant apartments, so I slept in those for a while. But that came to an end when two prospective tenants walked in on me buck-naked at a unit in Harlem. I got out of the shower, and the superintendent was standing there with two African guys. Luckily they didn’t report me. After that I tried sleeping in the office. That worked for a couple years. My colleagues saw me so much that they joked about me sleeping there. They had no idea it was true. But they fired me for good in 2013 and deactivated my entry card. That’s when I started sleeping outside. I bought a gym membership so at least I’d have a place to shower. Last winter was the worst. The cold would get through the sleeping bag and I’d wake up feeling like somebody had hit my hands with a hammer. All night I’d pray for 6 AM because that’s when my gym would open.”humansofny"I turned my wife into a meme."humansofny"I got married a few months ago. I mean, she's my everything and all. But I'm just trying to get used to having someone else's opinion around all the time. She doesn't like my beard so she's making me shave it. Today. At 6:40 PM."humansofny"I accidentally threw away a receipt."humansofny“I’m a graphic designer, and I’m trying to be more assertive at work. My bosses tell me that I need to use my voice more. Whenever my work gets criticized, I have a tendency to say: ‘You’re right.’ Or ‘I agree.’ I don’t really stand up for my own decisions, even though I had good reasons for making them. Whenever I’m around my friends, I can be sarcastic and obnoxious and say things without thinking about them. But for some reason that confidence doesn't transfer to the workplace. It’s especially frustrating because I know that there’s this stereotype of quiet, agreeable Asian females. And I feel like I’m fulfilling it.”humansofny"We're trying to break into this fashion world. There's a lot of bitch faces in this industry. Most of the time, the person is just shy and the bitch face is not real. But sometimes it's real. Sometimes it's really real."humansofny"I used to self-harm. He was literally the first person who ever sat me down and told me that I didn't deserve to be in pain all the time."humansofny"I'm at the beginning of my transition right now. I had nine procedures recently. My best friend is worried about me. She's afraid that I'm boxing myself in, and that people are only going to see me as this."humansofny“I just want to be a reality show. I think it’s close to happening. I just need to start a business or something. It’s really not that hard. The producers tell you what to do: choose some people not to like, make negative comments, get mad at everything, throw things…”humansofny"It's our fourth day of school. They've done everything together up until this point. So I made sure they were put in different classrooms."humansofny“My mom found out I was skipping school. When I came home, she told me that she'd bought something for me and put it in my room. When I went in my room, everything was gone. My TV was gone. My cable was gone. My systems were gone. My LeBrons were gone. My Jordans were gone. My Kobes were gone. All she left me was a pair of Reeboks.”humansofny“I’m a rare book librarian. I get to touch books every single day. My colleague and I have a joke that we are Defenders of Wonder. A physical book assigns a sense of reverence to the content inside. It’s the same feeling you get when you look at a painting or hear a piece of music. And I think that’s something worth defending. And just like a book gives reverence to it’s content, I think the library gives reverence to books. The building itself is a masterpiece. So many famous thinkers have come here to study and write. Just being here connects you to that lineage.”humansofny"I don't have anything personally against homeless people. But I try to avoid getting into conversations with them. Because I may be walking later with one of my influential friends, and the homeless person may come up to me and start acting like we're friends. And how's that going to look? You've got to choose who you're seen with. It's a matter of optics."humansofny“Our first date was going pretty well. I’d never been on a date before, so I was pretty proud of myself. I was finding perfect little moments to reference our previous text messages. I put my arm around her during the movie. Well, my arm wasn’t exactly touching her, but I draped it across her seat, which actually really hurt my shoulder. Everything seemed to be going perfectly. But then after the movie we were crossing the street and I actually got hit by a car. I fell on the ground and all the stuff flew out of my backpack. It was really embarrassing. My leg was killing me for the rest of the date and I had to pretend like it didn’t hurt.”humansofny“I first met her in church last October. I wanted to talk to her for months but I was too nervous. I’d never gone on a date or had a girlfriend before. All my friends kept helping me think of strategies to ask her out. But I kept saying that I’d do it later. I kept saying that I was too busy with college applications to have a girlfriend. But really I was just too scared. After my applications were finished, I ran out of excuses. So I asked her to sit next to me in church. When the service was over, I walked her to the door and asked her out. My friends were all watching and they snapped this picture. I was crossing my arms because I was so nervous. I’d never had a conversation with a girl for that long.”humansofny"I've been hyper-cautious my whole life. I've never done a controlled substance. I had extremely limited participation in the sexual revolution. And there's a thousand people that I should have told off but never did. And with all that caution, my life didn't even turn out all that well. At least I can say I never got an STD."humansofny"This is my frog. It's a girl frog and her name is Colt. She likes hopping and going on the wrong side of the bed. Every time I wake up she's always on the wrong side of the bed. She hops over there when I'm sleeping because she knows she's not allowed and that makes her curious."humansofny“It was so hard to get out from under his shadow. He was so known in the community that I couldn’t do anything without people saying: ‘That’s Sharif’s son.’ I couldn’t try and fail and be a fuck up, because it was always his name that I was representing. He lived life on his terms. That’s who he was. The allure of being a public figure was always greater than the allure of being a present father. I remember him leaving the house at 6 AM and coming back at 3 AM. There were a lot of times when I looked into the stands at a track meet or a football game, and there was nobody there. Only when I was old enough to join his fight did I finally start spending time with him. If he was organizing a protest against the Board of Education, my brothers and I were the ones setting up the tent cities. He once told me: ‘I’d love for you to love me. But as long as you grow into a man who provides for his family and cares about his community, I don’t need you to love me.’ It took me a long time to stop resenting him for not providing the things that I wanted. But eventually I had to accept I couldn’t choose who he was. But I could choose to love him.” (3/3)humansofny“He was a public figure. He was the chief aide to Newark’s first black mayor, and president of the Board of Education. I remember being sixteen or seventeen, and attending a speech that he was giving, and the whole crowd went silent the moment he stepped up to the podium. And I remember thinking: ‘How does somebody do that?’ That’s how big of a person he was. And seeing him get so frail really flipped me out. Two days ago I walked into his hospital room and he was unresponsive. They had him hooked up to IVs and they were draining blood from his stomach into a jar. I had to leave the room, and I couldn’t go back for several hours.” (2/3)humansofny“It’s looking like my dad isn’t going to make it. So I’m sitting here trying to figure out what life is going to be like without him. He was my North Star. Everything I know about being a man was because of him. This morning I went on a long run, and I began to feel tired. Suddenly I remember being thirteen years old, jogging alongside my father, and having him say to me: ‘As long as you can take one more step, take it.’” (1/3)humansofny“The first time I tried to kill myself was when I was twelve years old. It just didn’t feel like I had a space in the world. It seemed like everyone hated me. When I got my first period, the other students found my pads in my backpack and threw them around the school. Another time everyone got together and threw rocks at me. When I’d get home, I’d go straight to my room to avoid my father. I moved to New York when I turned eighteen because I felt like I needed a drastic change. And the move has given me much more confidence in myself. But I still feel very alone. Loneliness has become such a big part of me that I always migrate towards it. It’s like a person who’s always sitting next to me. And I’ve learned to like it.” (2/2)humansofny“My father moved back in with us when I was nine. He was an alcoholic. And he was a very big man. I remember being too intimidated to look past his neck. The first couple of weeks he was very nice. Every night he would put me to bed and tell me a story of a hopping bunny. Those are my happiest memories, but he got bored with that pretty quickly. When I was sixteen, he punched me in the face so hard that he shattered my front teeth.” (1/2)humansofny“I’d always been an overachiever. I graduated at the top of my class in high school. I got straight A’s. I got accepted into 14 of the 17 colleges that I applied to. But when I got to Harvard, everyone around me was just as smart or smarter. My grades fell, and suddenly I was no longer exceeding expectations. All that external validation that I’d become accustomed to suddenly stopped. And I crumbled. I felt lost. I learned that I hadn’t formed an identity beyond making people proud of me. So I left school for a while and took a hard look at my life. I learned to cope with failure. I learned that it was OK to rely on other people and ask for help. Eventually I went back and graduated. I’m still not exactly sure who I am. But I’m working on it.”humansofny“I don’t remember deciding that I didn’t want kids. I just always knew. I expected to have a solitary and philosophical life. It had nothing to do with the noise or the responsibility or the diapers, I just didn’t feel qualified. I couldn’t figure out my own life. How was I supposed to be responsible for someone else’s happiness and sense of self-worth? I pictured fatherhood as a quiet living room where everyone was unhappy and nobody knew why. But I was wrong. They made me so much happier, and it was so much easier than I thought. I didn’t realize how much of being a father is just about doing things together and being where they are.”humansofny"Choosing what I want to do with my life is like trying to watch a YouTube video. When I'm halfway through the video, I glance over at the sidebar and see they're recommending something else that seems more interesting."humansofny"I'm twenty-four, but I look like I'm twelve. So I'm hoping I'll age like Clooney."humansofny“We lived in Idaho, but our dairy farm went broke when the government dropped the price support for milk. Then I saw an ad in the paper looking for someone to build a library for Alaska’s first Eskimo college. I needed a job, and I’d studied library science in college, so we packed up all our kids and moved to Alaska. We stayed for 17 years, and I started libraries in about a dozen Eskimo villages. We lived for a few years in Barrow, which is the northernmost city in the United States. It was completely dark for several months a year. The temperature would fall below zero in October, and wouldn’t get back above zero until May. We’ve had an interesting life for a couple of farm kids.”humansofny“I’m under a lot of pressure to create a new currency where people can profit from helping other people. This has been prophesied over and over again. I need to work harder because I feel like I know the future and I’m the one who has to drive this train.”humansofny“I was born in a small town in North Carolina, but my family moved north when we were young. After I graduated from college, I went back for a visit. I thought it would be fun to make a bit of a triumphant return to my hometown. I was driving a new car and had a City College sweatshirt, so I was feeling pretty good about myself. As soon as we arrived, we got out of the car to walk around a bit. We were acting a bit too self-assured. My brother started taking photos of signs that said ‘Negro Entrance.’ We were gone for a couple hours. When we got back, a young white teenage mechanic was shouting at us from across the street. ‘Don’t get in your car!’ he screamed. ‘Don’t get in your car!’ He brought his truck over and towed us back to his garage. He explained that he’d seen the police disconnect our muffler so they could pull us over and take us to jail. After he fixed our muffler, I drove all the way back to New Jersey and didn’t return for 40 years.”humansofny“I love when it’s almost dawn because that’s when my creature friends wake up and start singing to me.”humansofnyJust about a month away from the release of HONY Stories! (October 13th) The first few copies have arrived and they look beautiful. The book is pretty massive. It’s 43% larger than the first book and includes more of everything. There are tons of the richer and more mature stories that have emerged over the last couple of years. Plus there are over 100 exclusive stories, which have never been seen and are among my favorites. HONY Stories is the result of thousands of hours of work. And I won’t say it’s perfect. But I’m pretty sure it’s as perfect of a book as I’m capable of making at this point in my life.
To top it all off, we managed to keep it at the same price as the last book. ($29.99) You can preorder now for 30% off, and it will be on your doorstep next month!

Link in bio.humansofny“Second grade is starting on Wednesday. They assign homework in second grade, so I’m a little worried about that. Also the teachers don’t help you as much. They might see that you are spelling a word wrong, and they’ll let you spell it wrong without even telling you. They’re not being mean. They just want to push you. Not actually push you. But push you to spell better. And I’m pretty sure we’re going to be learning about Native Americans. Because I walked by a second grade class last year and everyone was on the floor making Native American stuff out of clay.”humansofny“I spent about ten years as a music agent. Along the way, I became very interested in how my clients handled success. Some of them were tremendously successful but quite unhappy. Others seemed quite content with their success. The subject interested me so much that I went back to school to study the science of happiness, and now I teach the subject at NYU. Happiness doesn’t necessarily mean you have a smile on your face. It’s more of a mixing board with several different dials: positive emotion, engagement, relationships, meaning, and achievement. Everyone’s mixing board is set differently. There’s no one way to be happy and there’s no wrong way to be happy. I may draw my happiness from relationships, while somebody else may need to be constantly engaged in the pursuit of a goal.”humansofny“Ten of us got together and decided to escape. We were all 17 except for two really young kids who wanted to come with us. We had no plan really. The only time we’d ever left the boy’s home was when they brought us to Barnum and Bailey’s circus one time. Other than that, we knew nothing about how to survive in the outside world. The first night, two of us went into a grocery store and tried to steal a bunch of food for the group, but the owner called the cops. We all ran different directions when the cops came. I was the one they chased. I started to run up this mountain and I remember them shouting to me: ‘It’s going to snow tonight!’ All I had on were Nikes. And that night a blizzard came. I’d never been in a blizzard before. So I tried to get off the mountain, but it was dark by then and snowing hard so I fell 30 feet into a ravine. I was unconscious for a long time. When I woke up I was covered in snow, and my foot was frozen solid.” (3/3)humansofny“I was in the home for 13 years. It was a very abusive environment for everyone there. There were four staff members in particular that were especially bad. One of their favorite forms of punishment was the ‘full burn.’ First they’d make you take your clothes off and lay on the carpet. One of them would sit on your back, and the other one would pull you all the way down the hall. The worst was The Ice Man. If I saw him today, he’d be dead. He was like one of those guys you see in the movies, where even when he smiled, it was ice cold. He’d come in your room and tell you that you had a date with The Ice Man. Then he’d fuck you and make you suck his dick. Then afterward, he’d tell you when your next date was going to be, just so you’d have to worry about it all week. Ten of us tried to escape when I was seventeen. I had a date with The Ice Man coming up so I figured I had nothing to lose.” (2/3)humansofny“My dad gave me up to the boys’ home when I was four. He told me that he was taking me fishing. He got the poles, the bait, everything. I was excited. He said he knew about a new spot. We pulled up to this huge building. He told me to wait in the car while he ran inside and got permission from his friend. Then he came back with two men. ‘I’m sorry,’ he said, ‘but you have to stay here.’ I kept screaming: ‘I’ll be good! I’ll be good! I’ll be good!’ And he kept saying, ‘It ain’t you. It ain’t you. It ain’t you.’ I ripped his shirt off his back trying to keep him from leaving, and he drove off without a shirt.” (1/3)humansofny“It got so bad that we started hiding our mother’s keys just to keep her from going to the crack house. My grandmother finally rescued us from her right before I went into middle school. When we got taken away, my mother really went off the deep end. We never heard from her. There was a lot of resentment from my side. It was an awkward age. And whenever there were events at school and my friends brought their parents, I’d get angry all over again. Things started to change when I was 15. I got a really bad case of the West Nile Virus and I almost died, and suddenly Mom got serious about rehab. She didn’t laugh it off anymore. She’d call and talk about the things she was learning in her counseling sessions. She’d tell me about the milestones she reached. She finally got clean and now we’re best friends. We talk every day. Out of all my siblings, I’ve been the most forgiving. I think it was easiest for me because I managed to separate the addiction from the person. Even with how bad it got, and with everything she put us through, there was never a moment that I doubted she loved us.” (2/2)humansofny“From the ages of 7 to 12, we were pretty much on our own. Sometimes we’d be left alone for days at a time. We wouldn’t have lights, water, or heat. At night we’d huddle around the stove for warmth. We lived in a bad neighborhood, so we knew what was going on. We even knew where the crack house was. We’d walk down the street to see if our mom’s car was parked out front. We ate whatever we could find. Some days it was just cereal and sardines. We shared what we had. My younger brother was the hustler. He was nine. He’d knock on doors in the neighborhood, looking for jobs. He mowed lawns, raked leaves, shoveled snow. Then he’d always share his money with us to buy food. But a lot of times our mom would take it for herself. One time my mom brought us home a dog. We pooled all our money together to buy it food, and took care of it for awhile. But it got sick one day, and we didn’t know what to do, and we couldn’t find our mom. So it died.” (1/2)humansofny“I got a message from God the other day about how to solve the world’s problems. We’ve got to send all the world leaders to play on one of Trump’s golf courses. Then while they’re gone, we replace them with grandmas. Because nobody ever got invaded by a grandma.”humansofny“Today’s his tenth birthday. He’s a very emotional young man. He likes to solve other people’s problems. One time when he was five years old, he came with me to the store and we bought two pounds of fresh apricots. I let him carry the bag home. He walked a little bit behind me the entire way. After awhile, I asked him to hand me an apricot. ‘I can’t,’ he said. ‘I’ve given them all away.’ I knew then that I was raising a humanitarian.” (Tabriz, Iran)humansofny“My daughter has a heart for animals. She wants to start her own charity to help dogs and cats. But I worry that she will get her heart broken because we have no culture for animals here. Animal lovers are seen as a little strange. But I try to encourage her because I don’t want her to do it secretly. Last year she saw a cat break its leg on the street. And without telling me, she took a taxi all the way to Tehran, just to find a veterinarian.” (Anzali, Iran)humansofny“I tried to warn her about her last boyfriend, but she didn’t want to listen. Once I overheard him telling her that she needed to respect him. I knew that was bad news. Then he left his home because he got in an argument with his family. I told her: ‘If he’ll do that to his family, he’ll do it to you too.’ But she didn’t listen. She stopped talking to me for a long time. Then sure enough, he took off and left her. She came back and thanked me. Go on, tell them. Mother was right.” (Anzali, Iran)humansofny"They do nothing but fight at home. But they stick together when we're out in the world." (Namakabroud, Iran)humansofny“We were married in the traditional way. Our two families knew each other, so a meeting was arranged. We’d never met. He came to my house with his mother, and we went to a room for two hours and talked. We talked about our expectations, our idea of love, and our plans for the future. I thought about it for two days, then I sent him a text message, saying: ‘Let’s do it.’ And he wrote back: ‘Alright, my dear.’” (Tabriz, Iran)humansofny“I was twenty-two during World War II. First the English invaded us from the south, then the Russians invaded us from the north. They had a lot more men than us and the city completely ran out of food. I saw many horrible scenes. My job was to distribute bread from the bakery. Crowds would gather and wait for the handouts. One winter night I found a mother sitting against the bakery wall, nursing her child. I went to give her a loaf of bread, but only the child was alive.” (Tehran, Iran)humansofny“My father was always very interested in religion. He wrote some books, but I was never religious myself, so I never bothered reading them. He died when I was 25. During the last months of his life, he lost his memory completely. He didn’t even recognize me. But he still remembered the words of his books. He could still recite the religious poems and songs that he’d written. So my brothers and I would sit in his room and read his books aloud to him. It was the first time I’d read them. I was surprised by how beautiful his poems were. I never knew he was so talented.” (Tehran, Iran)humansofny“I can draw a lot of things. I can draw trees, the sun, clouds, my mom, and my dad. I once drew a picture of a house that was so good, I had to hide it so nobody would steal it.” (Tehran, Iran)humansofny"My doctor told me to stop climbing mountains so now I just climb the small ones." (Tehran, Iran)humansofny“She’s from a very conservative family and she’s the only daughter. So I’m trying to win her parents’ trust. We’re up to four hours a week together. As long as we tell her parents exactly where we’re going. And send photos once we get there. And get home before 9 pm. Always before 9 pm.” (Tehran, Iran)humansofny“I’m trying to be an artist, but my parents just don’t understand. I showed a painting to my mom, and I was like: ‘Do you like it?’ And she was like: ‘I guess, but why is there a cigarette? Are you smoking now?’
And I was like: ‘No, Mom. The cigarette represents pain.’
And she was like: ‘Did we not love you enough?’” (Tehran, Iran)humansofny“Things are getting freer. Even a few years ago, I couldn’t wear what I’m wearing now without inviting a rebuke. The scarves are getting brighter and looser. The sleeves are getting shorter. The laughter is getting louder. This is a very young country. More than half the population is under 30. Have you ever seen an Iranian child? They are the most mischievous children on the planet. If you want an Iranian child to do something-- tell them not to do it. Tell them not to kiss. Tell them not to hold hands. Tell them to dress in black. Tell them not to use Facebook. This country is full of mischievous, curious Iranian children. And the people who make the rules are getting older. And just like the Iranian parent, they are getting exhausted.” (Namakabroud, Iran)humansofny“We first met in the bazaar. He owns a shop selling men’s suits. We saw each other, but my parents were with me at the time, so he couldn’t talk to me. But he managed to slip me his phone number. We began to talk, and eight months later I had to tell my parents that a guy who slipped me his phone number wanted to propose marriage. My father was upset. But my mother told him: ‘Calm down. It’s a new generation.’” (Rasht, Iran)humansofny“My mother died when I was two years old, so it’s just me and my father. He’s been really angry with me lately. He’s always wanted me to be an engineer like him, but I switched my major to photography. He didn’t’ show any emotion when I told him. He always has a poker face. But I know that he’s angry from the little things. He never asks me to go shopping with him anymore. We used to go to the market together. He’d pick up a watermelon, inspect it, then would hand it to me for my opinion. It doesn’t sound like much but I really valued that time together. But once I changed my major, he stopped asking me to come along. But I think things are getting better. Recently I scored in the top 5th percentile on the University Entrance Exam for photography. When I told my father, he didn’t show any emotion. But the next day he asked me if I wanted to go shopping. And that made me so happy. Because it’s just the two of us. And I really, really, really, really love him.” (Tehran, Iran)humansofny“When she was first born, I hugged her, but she didn't cry. I thought: ‘Oh God, something’s wrong.’ But the nurses told me to hold on a second. And they cleared something from her throat. Then she started crying. Then I started crying. And for the first time I knew how it felt to be a mother.” (Tehran, Iran)humansofny“I like to sit alone and think about the world. I wanted to be a philosophy major, but there is no philosophy class at our universities. The only class offered is ‘Religion and Philosophy.’ We aren’t exactly encouraged to decide things for ourselves. Any philosophy we have must be built on the existence of God. So I switched my major to physics. It still allows me to think about the world. And if someone wants me to say that a thing is true, they need to prove it with a formula." (Tehran, Iran)humansofny“My wife has a brain tumor and I haven’t sold a suit in two weeks. I was with my grandson last week and he asked me to buy him a chocolate. But I had nothing in my pockets. I had to tell him: ‘Wait until your father comes home.’ I wanted to melt into the soil.” (Tehran, Iran)humansofny“Since he was very young, I’ve tried to show him that we can’t always afford the things that we want. When my wallet is full, I show him. When my wallet is empty, I show him. Things have been especially hard lately because my husband has missed a few paychecks. We couldn’t get new supplies for school this year. But he told me: ‘Don’t worry Mom, we’ll get them when the wallet is full.’ And then the other day he saw that I was upset because we couldn’t get all the groceries we needed. So he went into his room and brought me his own savings.” (Anzali, Iran)humansofny“We’re fighting her lung cancer right now. She’s lost so much weight. We just moved to the sea so the air would be better. We had a close call the other night. I sleep in a different room because I don’t want to wake her with my snoring. But I woke up in the middle of the night and I could feel that something was wrong. I saw her shadow on the wall. I ran out to meet her in the hall, and she was gasping for her last breath. I had to give her an injection in the chest. If I hadn’t seen her shadow, we’d have lost her. Three years ago, the doctors told us that she only had six months. But God has given us three years. We take walks. We play backgammon. We look at photos of the grandchildren. I’m trying to cherish every moment.” (Namakabroud, Iran)humansofny“I left Iran eighteen years ago and went to Britain. I felt that I had to leave because the war had just ended and there weren’t many jobs. But I didn’t speak English, and I hadn’t gone to college, so I wasn’t sure how I’d survive. When I arrived in Britain, I found a small apartment to share with two African immigrants. We couldn’t communicate with each other. I tried turning on the television but I couldn’t understand anything. I totally lost my confidence. Luckily I met another Iranian immigrant who offered me a job at his fish-n-chips shop. My job was to mop the floor and peel potatoes. It was very difficult to adjust. I felt very lonely. I’d been a wrestler back in my hometown. People had respected me. Now I was at the bottom. Years later, I’d own several of my own restaurants. But that first night I cried the entire walk home.” @danano.restaurant (Namakabroud, Iran)humansofny"I'm supposed to watch them while Mom takes a nap. If they're too close to each other, they fight. If they're too far away from each other, they cry." (Anzali, Iran)humansofny“I'm bored with my life. Last year my wife passed away. I used to leave work as early as possible so we could have dinner together. Now I go home as late as I possibly can.” (Chalus, Iran)humansofny"My dad taught me how to swim!"
"How do you swim?"
"First put on your life jacket and then hold on to the raft." (Anzali, Iran)humansofny“I saw the text messages from other women before we got married. My parents warned me but I married him anyway, without their permission. I thought he’d change. Now he leaves for days at a time. He tells me: ‘Calm down. It’s nothing. They come and go. But I live with you.’ But I can’t calm down. I think about it all the time. Whenever he’s out, I think about it. I try to keep busy and calm my mind but it’s gotten so bad that I’m seeing a doctor.” (Rasht, Iran)humansofny“I’ve fallen in love with literature. I try to read for one or two hours every day. I only have one life to live. But in books I can live one thousand lives.” (Rasht, Iran)humansofnyToday in microfashion... (Tabriz, Iran)humansofny"He tried to take a social studies test for me once. But we got caught because he wrote his own name." (Chalus, Iran)humansofny“She had heart surgery when she was four years old. It was a very hard day. We all stood around her bed and told her that there was nothing to worry about. But all of us were terrified.” (Namakabroud, Iran)humansofny“It took us ten years, countless doctors appointments, and three miscarriages to have her. So we never feel bothered by her cries.” (Namakabroud, Iran)humansofnyMy last stop this summer is Iran. Iran holds a special place in my heart because it was the first international trip that I ever made with HONY. But that was three years ago, and I’ve always looked back at the collection with a tinge of regret, because HONY was still quite new and the work was pretty uncooked. I was only just beginning to include quotes alongside the photographs. I always wished that I could return and do a better job telling the stories of ordinary Iranians, and I’m excited to have that opportunity.humansofnyA Final Word On Pakistan:

Imagine that every time you have a lapse in judgment, it gets printed in newspapers around the world: every time you lose patience with your children, every time you scream at someone in traffic, every time you drink too much and do something you regret. Each time you slip up, everyone hears about it. The world is never notified about the 99.99% of the time that you are a completely normal, productive, law-abiding citizen. The world only learns about you when things go wrong. Now imagine what the world would think of you.

It’s not that terrorism, patriarchy, and violence aren’t real problems in Pakistan. They exist and the country is battling these issues every single day. Pakistanis are very much aware of the extremism in their midst. The problem is that so many people seem to only be aware of that extremism. Because just as in the hypothetical example above—the other 99.99% of life just doesn’t make the news. When there’s only room in the newspaper for a single column about Pakistan, it’s going to be filled with the most compelling story. And unfortunately, that tends to be the most violent story.

And those are important stories. Those are the types of stories that expose corruption, stop genocide, and alert the world to emerging threats. It’s right for those stories to be told. But when those stories are all that we hear, it’s so easy to imagine a world that’s far scarier than it really is. You lose sight of the 99.99% of the world that’s not scary at all. And living in fear can be a dangerous thing. Because if we’re afraid of each other, we’ll never be able to work together to solve our common problems.humansofnyBefore this fundraiser, Fatima had exhausted her financial resources in the struggle against bonded labor to the point where she feared that she'd be unable to pay her own medical bills. Thanks to everyone who donated over the past 72 hours, she now has nearly $2 million to continue her organization's fight against bonded labor. (To fully visualize this impact, it should be realized that the purchasing power of a dollar in Pakistan is about 5x greater than in the United States.) This is an absolutely transformational amount of money. Fatima is meeting with the board of the BLLF to plan a major expansion of their efforts, and she wanted me to pass along this statement: "From BLLF and from all of the bonded labourers, thank you. Thank you to everyone who has opened their hearts and donated to our cause. I struggle to find the words, I don't think I have the words to tell you how grateful we are. You have donated for freedom, for rehabilitation and we are indebted. Thank you so much. The prayers of every labourer are with you and they will always hold you in their hearts. Our responsibility now is to honour what you have trusted us with, and we will. We have a lot of work ahead of us, but we want to build a real freedom center in Lahore, here we can work on not just releasing families but rehabilitation. We want workers to be treated with the rights they deserve as citizens.

Pakistan faces a lot of challenges, and we want industry to thrive in Pakistan, but the labourers must be free. You cannot make people work by beating and chaining them. I believe that the day the owners understand me, that the day the worker is happy, the profits will be greater. Labour rights need to be regulated, owners have the right to make profit but not through abuse, and deprivation. That is not an industry, that is slavery.

This is a big step for labourers that this has received so much attention, and that their voices have reached a global stage and we are being heard. With this we hope to end bonded labour in Pakistan."humansofnyYesterday 40,000 people donated over $1,000,000 in fewer than 12 hours to help Fatima end bonded labor. The fundraiser currently sits at almost $1,400,000. There were no perks offered. No ‘reward levels.’ This was motivated by nothing more than genuine compassion and a desire to empower a woman who’s devoted her life to freeing people trapped in modern slavery. Thank you so much. Fatima has prepared a statement that I will post shortly.
I want to conclude this series with a story that will show you the character of the person you’ve just empowered. This is one of thousands of anecdotes that reveal a person who is more committed to humanity than to her own safety or comfort:

Recently a family trapped in bonded labor got in touch with Fatima. They told her that they could not escape their owners, and that the girls in the family were being sexually abused by the owners. Fatima immediately jumped in her car and drove to the kiln in the middle of the night. She told the family to run. The owners woke up and began to fire guns. The family reached the car, but the youngest girl—only four years old--- had fallen down and been captured.

For three months the child was missing. Fatima went to court and begged for intervention, but the police kept insisting that they’d searched the kiln, and no child could be found. “I couldn’t sleep,” explains Fatima. “Every night I laid in bed and could think about nothing but this young girl in the hands of her brutalizers. I stayed awake all night thinking about how I could rescue her.” Fatima recruited several other laborers to help her. Dressed in rags, they went to the kiln and pretended to be workers. They spent several days searching. They couldn’t find the girl anywhere. But from the owner’s house, they heard constant crying. They went back to the court and demanded that the house be investigated. The girl was found. But for weeks, she would not eat, talk, or cry. Fatima eventually learned that every time the girl would cry for food, the owner would beat her.
I’m going to leave the fundraiser up for the remainder of the day. If anyone else would like to donate, the link is in the bio.humansofny“My sister’s kidneys were failing. We tried to raise the money to save her. We sold our cattle. We sold our property. We sold everything we had. When we ran out of options, I took a 5,000 rupee loan from the brick kiln. I thought I could pay it back by working for 15 or 20 days. But when I thought it was time to leave, the kiln owners did the accounts. They told me: ‘You lived in our house. You ate our food. You owe 11,000 now. If you have 11,000 rupees, you can go. Otherwise get back to work.’ They worked me harder. I never saw my wages. If I wanted to stop, they beat me. A few months later, my grandfather died. I asked for a few days off to arrange his funeral. ‘You owe 30,000 rupees now,’ they told me. ‘If you have 30,000 rupees, you can leave. Otherwise get back to work.’ Now I owe 350,000 rupees. And my sister died a long time ago. There’s no way out. Soon my debt will pass on to the next generation.” *1,000 rupees = $10
(6 of 7)
(Lahore, Pakistan) --------------------------------------------------- This is the sixth post in a series on Syeda Ghulam Fatima. Known to her admirers as Pakistan’s Harriet Tubman, Fatima has worked tirelessly to eradicate bonded labor—one of the last remaining forms of modern slavery. This man is one of millions of bonded laborers in Pakistan, and one of the tens of thousands who has turned directly to Fatima to help him escape the violence and cruelty of his owners. Fatima has been electrocuted, shot, and repeatedly beaten for her activism. Despite her outsized impact, she operates on a small budget. So we are raising money to aid her in her mission.

Today is the last day of the fundraiser we are holding for Fatima’s organization, The Bonded Labour Liberation Front. We have raised nearly $600,000 so far. Costs are low in Pakistan, so money can be leveraged many times over. We are not just increasing Fatima’s abilities to help free people from bondage. We are MULTIPLYING those abilities. Nearly 20,000 people have contributed so far. That is .13 percent of the people who follow this page. If .2 percent of people who follow this page donated, we could empower Fatima with $1,000,000. LINK IN BIOhumansofny“My sister fell ill and her medical bills cost 30,000 rupees. My father wasn’t getting his salary on time, so we had no options. I took a loan from the brick kiln and agreed to work for them until it was paid off. Other members of my family did the same. We thought it would only take three months. But when I went to leave, they told me I owed them 90,000 rupees. I couldn’t believe it. They told me I couldn’t leave. It’s like quicksand. They only pay you 200 rupees per 1000 bricks, and it all goes to them, and the debt keeps growing. We are supposed to work from dawn to dusk for six days a week, but we never get the 7th day off. They tell me I owe them 900,000 rupees now. There is no hope for me. Every year they have a market. The brick kiln owners get together and they sell us to each other. Just ten days ago my entire family was sold for 2.2 million rupees.” (1,000 rupees = $10) (Lahore, Pakistan) ----------------------------------------------------This is the fifth post in a series on Syeda Ghulam Fatima. Known to her admirers as Pakistan’s Harriet Tubman, Fatima has worked tirelessly to eradicate bonded labor—one of the last remaining forms of modern slavery. This man is one of millions of bonded laborers in Pakistan, and one of the tens of thousands who has turned directly to Fatima to help him escape the violence and cruelty of his owners. Fatima has been electrocuted, shot, and repeatedly beaten for her activism. Despite her outsized impact, she operates on a very small budget. So we are raising money to help her in her mission.

Today is the last day of the fundraiser we are holding for Fatima’s organization, The Bonded Labour Liberation Front. We have raised nearly $400,000 so far. Costs are low in Pakistan, so this sort of money can be leveraged many times over. We are not just increasing Fatima’s abilities to help free people from bondage. We are MULTIPLYING those abilities. Over 12,000 people have contributed so far. If 1 in 500 people donate, we can more than double that. I encourage everyone to read the previous posts and consider being counted in out effort to help Fatima end modern slavery. LINK IN BIO.humansofny“I was born into the brick kilns. I started working at the age of 12. The work never ended. We’re expected to make 1,000 bricks per day. We work from 5 AM to dusk. I tried to organize the workers recently to demand fair wages. We held meetings at night, but one of the workers informed on us. The owners called me to the office and beat me. They made the other workers join in. Then they took off all my clothes and tied me to a tree. I begged them not to do it. They left me there for hours. I tried to escape at night. I padlocked my family in the house and I ran into the fields. I came straight to Fatima. Before we could return for my family, the police had helped the owners break into my house. And my daughters were paraded naked in the streets.” (4 of 7) (Lahore, Pakistan) --------------- This is the fourth post in a series on Syeda Ghulam Fatima. Known to her admirers as Pakistan’s Harriet Tubman, Fatima has worked tirelessly to eradicate bonded labor—one of the last remaining forms of modern slavery. This man is one of millions of bonded laborers in Pakistan, and one of the tens of thousands who has turned directly to Fatima to help him escape the violence and cruelty of the owners. Fatima has been electrocuted, shot, and repeatedly beaten for her activism. Despite her outsized impact, she operates on a very small budget. So we are raising money to help her in her mission.

Today is the last day of the fundraiser we are holding for Fatima’s organization, The Bonded Labour Liberation Front. We have raised nearly $250,000 so far. Costs are low in Pakistan, so this sort of money can be leveraged many times over. We are not just increasing Fatima’s abilities to help free people from bondage. We are MULTIPLYING those abilities. Nearly 8,000 people have contributed so far. I encourage everyone to read the previous posts, and consider being counted in our effort to aid Fatima’s fight against modern slavery: Link in biohumansofny“I was walking to court to attend a hearing against a kiln owner when suddenly I was surrounded by a group of men. Everyone ran away except for my brother and me. The men told me that I better drop the case. I told them I would not. Then they knocked me to the ground, pulled back my leg, and shot me in the knee. Afterwards they did the same to my brother. We thought we were dead. I was taken to the public hospital but was turned away. Politicians from the local ruling party had forbidden the doctors from treating me. The assailants were never prosecuted. I had to sell my house to afford treatment at a private hospital. But the brick kiln workers came together to try to help me pay for my treatment. Despite their poverty, they gave 5 to 10 rupees at a time. And they lined up to donate their blood.” (3 of 7) (Lahore, Pakistan)
This is the third post in a series on Syeda Ghulam Fatima. Known to her admirers as Pakistan’s Harriet Tubman, Fatima has worked tirelessly to eradicate bonded labor—one of the last remaining forms of modern slavery. She has been electrocuted, shot, and repeatedly beaten for her activism. Despite her outsized impact, she operates on a very small budget. So we are raising money to help her in her mission. As is clear from her story, Fatima puts 100% of her own resources, both physical and financial, into her activism. Every dollar donated will have significant impact. There is no better way to impact the battle against modern slavery than empowering one of its most forceful opponents: Link in biohumansofny“Bricks are the primary unit of construction across Pakistan. They are cheaper than concrete so almost everything is made with brick-- especially in rural areas. There are 20,000 brick kilns across the country. We estimate that an average of 40 families work on each of these kilns and that each family is required to make 1000 bricks per day. That means 4.5 million people are living in slavery conditions. And so many of these workers are young children. Often they work all day and are denied education. They work in isolated areas, shielded from the eyes of society and hidden from the protection of the constitution. The laws don’t reach the kilns, so the workers live in constant fear of violence and retribution. The kiln owners are so rich and powerful. Their profits represent nearly 3% of Pakistan’s GDP. They put their friends and relatives in the legislature. They bribe and intimidate the police. It is very dangerous to speak out against them. I’ve been attacked and threatened so many times that I no longer fear death.” (2 of 7) (Lahore, Pakistan) -------------
This is the second post in a series on Syeda Ghulam Fatima. Known to her admirers as Pakistan’s Harriet Tubman, Fatima has worked tirelessly to eradicate bonded labor—one of the last remaining forms of modern slavery. She has been electrocuted, shot, and repeatedly beaten for her activism. Despite her outsized impact, she operates on a very small budget. So we are raising money for the organization that Fatima leads: the Bonded Labour Liberation Front. US Dollars can be leveraged for so much impact in Pakistan. Your donation will go very far. So please, let’s help empower Fatima in her fight to end slavery: Link in biohumansofnyI want to conclude the Pakistan series by spotlighting a very special change agent who is working to eradicate one of the nation’s most pressing social ills. Over 20,000 brick kilns operate in Pakistan, supported by millions of workers, and the system is largely underpinned by an extremely close cousin of slavery—bonded labor. Throughout rural Pakistan, illiterate and desperate laborers are tricked into accepting small loans in exchange for agreeing to work at brick kilns for a small period of time. But due to predatory terms, their debt balloons, growing larger as time goes on, with no possibility of repayment, until these laborers are condemned to work for the rest of their lives for no compensation. If the laborer dies, the debt is passed on to his or her children. The practice is illegal. But due to the extreme power and wealth of brick kiln owners, the law is often unenforced in rural areas. It is estimated that well over one million men, women, and children are trapped in this modern feudalist system.

Meet Syeda Ghulam Fatima. Described as a modern day Harriet Tubman, Fatima has devoted her life to ending bonded labor. She has been shot, electrocuted, and beaten numerous times for her activism. Quite literally, she places herself between the workers and their owners. The organization she leads, the Bonded Labour Liberation Front, is small but determined. It is working to set up Freedom Centers throughout rural Pakistan so that every bonded laborer has access to advocacy and legal aid. Fatima operates on a very small budget. So as we learn her story over the next few days, anyone wishing to help empower Fatima can donate to Bonded Labour Liberation Front at: Link in bio.humansofny“She doesn’t speak up for herself, so I’m afraid if someone harms her she wouldn’t tell me. I don’t learn about things that happen to her until they are reflected in her behavior at home. Recently I found her washing the dishes, and I asked her where she learned to do that. She told me: ‘When I visit my friend’s house, I do the dishes all the time.’” (Lahore, Pakistan)humansofny“I’ve been getting passed over by smooth talkers my entire life. It’s just not in my nature to exaggerate my role. But there’s always that guy who waits until the boss comes around, and then starts loudly giving directions as if he was coordinating all the work.” (Lahore, Pakistan)humansofnyWe have located the woman from yesterday's post, and are in contact with her. We also have someone in Lahore who is going to help connect her with those who wish to help. In order to streamline that process, we created a new email account for all such offers. She is hoping for someone who can help connect her with services, as opposed to cash donations. If you believe you can help this woman with accommodation and/or medical treatment, please email: honypakassist@gmail.com.
Thanks everyone. Based on the outpouring of offers and support from yesterday, hopefully we can help her heal and get back on her feet. -------------------------------
“I left an abusive relationship and I have nowhere to go. I have Hepatitis C, so no one is willing to take me in. I don’t know how long I will live. I tried to give her up for adoption so that she’d have a good home. The wife of a minister told me about a place where I could drop her off. But when I got there, I just couldn’t bring myself to do it.” (Lahore, Pakistan)humansofny“My first daughter passed away immediately after she was born. All the reports had been fine leading up to the birth. I lost consciousness in the delivery room, and when I woke up, there was no baby. I had fear in my heart, but everyone kept giving me false assurances. They said that everything was fine, but that the baby ‘just wasn’t feeling well.’ But I knew what had happened. I never even asked to see her. Finally they told me, ‘God has taken his gift from you.’ When this one was born, the doctors had to take her away for five days. Everyone kept telling me not to worry. I thought it was happening all over again.” (Lahore, Pakistan)humansofny“I lost my family home because of my gambling. I couldn’t handle the stress so I needed an escape. I used to be a body builder. My arms were this thick. I was healthier than you are. But now this is my only breakfast. It makes me numb and I sleep until the evening. It’s been about ten years. And the longer I do it, the more pain that’s waiting for me if I stop.” (Lahore, Pakistan)humansofny"Our friends are trying to set us up." (Lahore, Pakistan)humansofny“I’m trying to help her figure out her future. I was working at the Sunday market, and she asked me for help setting up a stand of her own. She told me about her story and showed me her bruises and marks. I’m trying to help her all I can, but my means are limited. My own income is only 2500 rupees a week and I’m getting engaged next week. I’m trying to set up a committee to donate blood because she really needs it.” (2/2) (Lahore, Pakistan)humansofny“I left an abusive relationship and I have nowhere to go. I have Hepatitis C, so no one is willing to take me in. I don’t know how long I will live. I tried to give her up for adoption so that she’d have a good home. The wife of a minister told me about a place where I could drop her off. But when I got there, I just couldn’t bring myself to do it.” (1/2) (Lahore, Pakistan)humansofnyToday in microfashion... (Lahore, Pakistan)humansofny“My daughter had a hole in her heart. I prayed constantly because I never knew the moment that God would be listening. We were given medication from the doctor, and then God healed her.” (Lahore, Pakistan)humansofny“I’m studying cardiac regeneration to help repair damaged hearts. It was widely believed that hearts cells could not be replenished, but we’ve used carbon dating to discover cells in the heart that are younger than the heart itself. So I believe it is possible.”
(Lahore, Pakistan)humansofny“My brother works in a camera factory. Yesterday he brought home something that projects monsters on my bedroom wall.” (Lahore, Pakistan)humansofny“I was never educated because I began working when I was a child. I was always envious of the boys who got to wear uniforms and go to school. This is her first month of school. She comes home and tells me exactly what happened, everyday. I love it. If I’m not home for a few days, she’ll save up all her stories, then tell them to me all at once.” (Lahore, Pakistan)humansofny“It seems that violence is the only lens through which ordinary people in Pakistan are viewed in the media. Even if it’s a story about a Pakistani rock band, it will be set in the context of a violent society. There’s nothing false about the perspective. Pakistan has a problem with violence. Violence is used to silence journalists, and judges, and moderate religious scholars. And it seems to be getting worse. Every time I see somebody on television speaking out in anger against extremism or corruption—I’ll say a prayer for them. And every time one of those people is murdered, those of us who aspire to be like them grow a little more afraid. So it’s not that the reports of violence are false. But they are only a small part of the truth. There’s so much other life being lived here. But there’s only so much space in international newspapers. And there’s so much news in the world. So only the most jarring stories make the cut.” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“My husband passed away eight years ago. His death ruined my life. I couldn’t pay rent anymore. The people in the neighborhood tried to help me at first. Every day they would arrange two or three hundred rupees to pay my bills and send groceries to my house. But eventually their charity ran out and they told me it was time to seek help from God. Now I sleep on the floor of a relative’s house, and during the day I sit here and beg to pass the time. This is the fate God has chosen for me. When I talk about these things, my heart begins to sink. If I stay quiet, I feel OK.” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“My father was killed in a suicide bombing in 2003, while he was attending Friday prayers. We were at home. We’d prepared a lunch for him and were expecting him any minute. Suddenly our relatives began calling to ask if he’d been at the mosque. He left us a small, sweet message before he died. He said: ‘I love you all and follow what I taught you.’ The ambulance driver told us that he refused to be taken away, and that he insisted they treat other people first. We believe he was martyred. And we believe that those who are martyred never die. We think he’s still with our family and shares our concerns. Whenever I am tense or nervous, or achieve something big, I smell him. He had his own smell. I don’t know how to describe it.” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“I’ve been complaining about a good friend to my colleagues recently, and I need to stop. This is someone who’s been like a brother to me. When my pockets were empty, he stepped in to help me out. Recently he’s done some small things that bother me. And I’ve somehow allowed those small things to blind me from all the big things that he’s done in the past.”
(Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“He’s my only grandchild. Every time he does anything, I enjoy it. The other day he pulled down the TV set. I didn’t even mind.” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny"I want to be a teacher, like my mom."
"What's the key to being a good teacher?"
"Don't hit the children." (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“On her sixth birthday, two of her friends came over and brought her presents. One of the presents was big, and the other was small. The friend who’d brought the big present was laughing at the smaller present. It was so hard for me to not intervene. I was so used to telling my daughter how to act and what to say. But I decided that this time I’d sit back and see how she responded. “I like both my presents the same,” she said. And I remember feeling so proud, because I knew that what I’d been teaching her was working.” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“The last business I worked for got attacked. It started with phone calls-- making threats and asking for money. My boss refused to pay. Then one day, two men on motorcycles pulled up and started shooting. The security guards ran away. My friend was shot. A few days later, the calls started again. My new business is too small to get extorted, but I still feel the effects. All my materials cost more, because the cost of extortion gets passed all the way down the supply chain.” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“My father made this business and I took it over from him. He was a self-made man. His own father died young, so he only studied up to fifth grade. He quit school and started delivering food and tea when he was ten. Eventually he bought this small table, and grew it into a restaurant with 27 tables. He wanted us to have a better life. With all the work he put into us, I should have accomplished more. But I was responsible for my own destruction. He sent me to one of the best high schools in the city, but he was always at work. So I had no supervision and all I did was play video games. He worked so hard for me and I didn’t even study. But my son will be different. He’s going to be an important man.” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny"My mom is afraid of me studying abroad because she thinks I'll stand out too much. I asked her: 'How is that any different than here?'" (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“We lost by 47 runs yesterday. We're not in good form because our moms won’t let us practice during exam time.” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“I belong to a very conservative family, so I’ve been dealing with a lot of permission issues. There are a lot of boundaries on me. Most of the women in my family are housewives, and my father would prefer me to become a housewife as well. But I’ve been working so hard in school. I’m studying all the freaking time. These exams are so tough. I don’t want all this hard work to be wasted. I want to be a businesswoman. My mother is a housewife. She needs to ask my father for everything. When he’s not around, she tells me: ‘Do exactly what you want to do.’” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny"I take her everywhere I go." (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“Shortly after we were married, I got tuberculosis and rashes broke out all over my body. They smelled so bad that I had to be cleaned three times a day. She always made me fresh food and made sure I had clean clothes every time I bathed. One morning, during this time, she asked me: ‘Would you do the same if I got sick?’ I promised her: ‘I’ll do even more.’ She died a few years ago from a brain tumor. She was in bed for the last three years of her life. Toward the end, she couldn’t identify people. Water from her brain would drain from her eyes. I ran home from the shop three times a day to help her go to the bathroom. I was always sure to turn her. She never had a single bedsore. In the end, the doctor told me: ‘It would not have been possible to take better care of her.’” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny"Lyari is a tough neighborhood. There are a lot of gangs, and people are always trying to bribe young kids to do bad things. I've run this arcade for 15 years. It makes me happy to see children playing games instead of getting caught up in those things." (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“I want to have my own career. I don’t want to depend on anyone else. But there’s a view in our society that an independent woman doesn’t belong here. She is not ‘one of us.’ So if you want to do some things on your own, they expect you to do everything on your own. And that’s difficult. Because wanting to be independent doesn’t mean I want to be alone.” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofnyToday in microfashion... (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“When I was ten years old, I had a bad disease that caused me to lose consciousness and when I woke up, I was blind. I screamed: ‘Mom, I can’t see anymore!’ And we both started crying. It's been a very hard life for me. Nobody would give his daughter to a blind man. If I dwelled on how lonely I am, I’d have died a long time ago. My only friend is the radio.” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny“I tried to travel to a school for the blind in India. When I got off the train, a man offered to polish my boots at the railway station. He was very nice to me. When he heard where I was going, he offered to take me there. Along the way, we stopped to take a dip in a stream. When I got out of the water, he had disappeared. He’d taken everything. I started screaming and crying. I heard some kids in the distance, so I tried to walk toward them, but it was hilly and thorny, and I kept falling down. When I finally reached them, they didn’t understand Urdu. But they took me to some men who helped me. ‘You’re lucky,’ they told me. ‘We find a lot of dead bodies in that stream.’” (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny"The rain delayed our wedding. All the guests are stuck in traffic. We're just killing time and trying to stay calm. We were afraid that everyone would stay home, but I just called my father and he said that people are beginning to show up. So we're about to leave." (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny"I'm forty years old, and she still can't fall asleep unless I'm home safe at night." (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny"What are you doing?"
"Nothing." (Karachi, Pakistan)humansofny"I want to be a police officer."
"What will be the best part about being a police officer?"
"The power." (Babusar Top, Pakistan)humansofny“Education changed the lives of my entire family. Before education, we knew only how to work. It was always very quiet in our home. My grandfather was a laborer, but he paid to send my father to a tutor so that he could learn to read. He told my father that, if nothing else, he should begin by learning how to read and write his name. When I was born, my father taught me how to read. I started with local newspapers. I learned that our village was part of a country. Then I moved on to books. And I learned that there was an entire world around this mountain. I learned about human rights. Now I’m studying political science at the local university. I want to be a teacher.” (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny“I admired her from afar for a while, and eventually summed up the courage to tell her my feelings. She told me that she felt the same way. This was before cell phones, so at first our meetings were limited to random interactions on the street. But then we both got mobiles and started talking on the phone. Eventually she told me that she wanted to marry me. I sent my mother to ask her family for permission, but they didn’t think I was a suitable match. They were a higher class of people. They were educated. Her father was a business owner. I tried to plead with them: ‘I’m not paralyzed,’ I told them. ‘I work. Why am I not good enough?’ But I was never given an answer.” (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny“My father passed away a year before I got married. I wish he could have lived to see me start my own family. After God, he was my god. There was no infrastructure here when I was growing up, so we lived through very hard times and often there was no food. But he’d do whatever he could to make us forget. One night he organized an entire musical. We couldn’t afford instruments so we pretended that we had them. Every one in the family had a role. I was the star.” (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny“I’m studying overseas at a small college in Minnesota. I’m just home for the summer. There’s definitely more outward freedom in the states to wear what I want and do what I want. But I never feel completely at ease because there are only three Pakistanis at my school, and I feel that everything I do reflects on my family, my religion, and my country. I feel pressured to always be exceedingly polite and well behaved, even when I don’t feel like it. But in Pakistan I can relax more, even though the electricity sometimes goes out and I’ve already been mugged twice since I’ve been back. Because here I feel like my actions only reflect on me.” (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny“We lost their mother to a heart attack recently. And their father is overseas trying to find a job. So I’m currently Grandpa, Grandma, Mom, and Dad. Luckily I have five children and eighteen grandchildren, so I’m very experienced. There’s actually one more child at home—he’s eight years old. And none of them can fall asleep unless they are lying next to me. So I have to put the oldest one to sleep first. Then I get up quietly, and lie down between the other two. The only problem is sometimes they fall asleep on top of me.” (Passu, Pakistan)humansofny“I was born paralyzed from the waist down. But this community is so tolerant that I never had to worry about fitting in. I only had to focus on improving myself. Everyone treated me as normal. I got everything my older brother got, including punishment. I never once escaped a spanking. I dove off cliffs. I swam. I played cricket and badminton. I climbed trees. The only thing my family told me not to do was play music, because they thought it would distract me from my studies. But eventually I got so good, they couldn't even tell me to stop that.” (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny“This is the worst time of my life. I have two brothers. A few years ago, one of them was diagnosed with polio. And he can’t walk anymore. And last year, my other brother got a brain tumor. And he can no longer remember my name. So one brother needs me to be his legs. And the other needs me to be his mind. My father is too old to work, so I support us all on a soldier’s salary. If something happens to me, there will be no hope for any of us.” (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny“Last month I had an accident that destroyed my tractor, and now my life has been ruined. I’d saved for that tractor for three years. When I finally bought it, I was so happy. Things seemed to finally be moving forward. I was working crops and making money. Now it’s destroyed, but I still owe $5000. I only make $120 a month, and most of that goes toward renting this new tractor. I’m still very injured from the accident. I should be in bed but I couldn't take any more days off. I didn’t used to look like this. I used to care about my appearance and wear proper clothes. I used to eat proper meals. But I can’t afford any of that now. I have nothing left to sacrifice.” (Passu, Pakistan)humansofny“He’s a very respectful husband. He’s different from a lot of the men in this region. He never stops me from voicing my opinions. And if he ever notices me walking down the road, there’s always hot tea and apricot cake waiting when I arrive. (Passu, Pakistan)humansofny“My life is on repeat, every day. This area is surrounded by water, but my village has no access, so every morning I make a two-hour trek to the glacier so we have something to drink. During the day I work to maintain this road. I get $100 a month. In the winter, I make daily trips to cut wood so we can stay warm. I can’t leave this land because it’s all I have. There is no happiness or sadness in my life. Only survival.” (Passu, Pakistan)humansofny"I just found out we've been evicted. Right after you leave, I'm going to start packing up. I've got to find my family a new place to live by tonight. The landlady is a good woman. She's just in a tough situation. Her disabled son lost his home. I'll handle it. I've been through worse." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny“Sorry, my English is not good. I’m here to climb mountains. I left my husband and sweet childrens back in Austria.” (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny"When I'm bored, I call up Radio Pakistan and request a song, then I start dancing. I'll even dance on a rainy day. It's my way of expressing how grateful I am. I am the happiest man in Pakistan." (Passu, Pakistan)humansofny"When I was working on my doctorate, I discovered on the last day that my thesis was ten pages short, and he left his own office to run whatever errands I needed. He didn't even have a car. He took a rickshaw. I had a dream when I was deciding whether or not to marry him. I was falling through the air, but I didn't feel any fear, because I knew that he would catch me." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofnyToday in microfashion.... (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny"I want to be a chef."
"What's the best part about being a chef?"
"You can make your own dessert."
--------------------------
(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny"What's your favorite thing about your sister?"
"Her happiness" (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny“I wanted to be a singer. I loved music. I practiced all the time and worked on writing songs for myself. I loved sad songs especially. But the community put so much pressure on my mother. My father passed away when I was twelve. And everyone kept telling my mother that a girl could not be something like a singer without her father’s permission. My father wouldn’t have minded. He was always so supportive of me. But my mom was so worried about what people would think. She begged me to stop. She grew so nervous that I finally told her, ‘It's OK, Mom. I’ll stop.’ Now I just listen to music. It’s too sad for me to sing anymore.” (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny"There were no paved roads here when I was a boy. We had to walk for 3 days to get to places that only take 2 hours now. There was never any money for school. We had no wealth or property. Beginning at six years old, I cleaned dishes at a restaurant until 9 pm. Then I would go to sleep and start again. All my money went to my parents. I'd hear stories about cities and airplanes, but they seemed like fairy tales. I'd dream of visiting these places, but before I could get too far, I'd be hungry again. So I grew up thinking that the entire world was like our valley. I thought all children lived like me. Then one day when I turned 16, I had the opportunity to visit to the city of Gilgit. I couldn't believe it. I saw a boy eating at a restaurant with his father. He was my age. He was wearing a school uniform. I broke down in tears." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny"What's your goat's name?"
"Goat."
(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny“One beautiful thing about advocating for the poor is that feminist ideals are advanced naturally. In order to fight eviction from their homes, women whose patriarchy has kept them secluded have been allowed to emerge into public life. Their husbands have been forced to choose their homes over their idea of honor. Even within my organization, the patriarchy is being broken down. Energetic young females are beginning to share influence with older male members. When you’re in a tough fight for a common cause, you can’t afford to be choosy about where the best ideas are coming from.” (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny"It’s a difficult time to be a socialist. The left has been depleted everywhere else, but in Pakistan it’s been decimated. I belong to an organization called the Awami Worker’s Party, and right now is a crucial moment for us. We are trying to resist slum evictions in Islamabad. There is no affordable housing in the city, so servants and laborers huddle together in informal settlements called kachi abadis, which have no water or electricity. Recently, the Islamabad high court has issued an eviction notice, and the land is being sold out beneath them. They are defending their actions by saying that terrorists hide in the slums. Right now an operation is underway to remove the slum inhabitants by force." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofny"The most important thing about swimming is to not be afraid."
"What advice do you have for people who are afraid?"
"Just don't be afraid. Or you'll drown."
(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)humansofnyContinuing in the tradition of last summer, I’m going to be travelling during the month of August and posting stories from overseas. Only this time I’ll be visiting two countries instead of trying to span the world, because that was exhausting, and it also caused my poor senile dog to forget my existence. The first stop is Pakistan. Hope you enjoy.humansofny"I had a nanny named Carmela Geribelli. She was a Sicilian woman who lived across the hall from me at my apartment building in Queens. We lived in 2B and she lived in 2M. My parents were always working so I’d live with her during the week. She always had me pick her horse when she bet on the races. And whenever something bad happened, for some reason, she’d scream: ‘Shit on toast!’ All my extended family lived in Korea, so I even called her ‘Grandmother.’ I’d spend every Christmas with my Korean family, and every Christmas Eve I’d spend with my Italian family across the hall."humansofny“I found out my boyfriend was cheating when I got Chlamydia.”humansofny“There were two young people fighting at the apartment I was staying in, so the police came. They took all our IDs and saw that my green card had expired, so they took me to jail. It was my fault for not renewing it, but I really thought they’d let me go after a few days. I couldn’t afford a lawyer. When they finally assigned me one, she told me that I was going to have to stay in jail and that it was going to take over a year to sort out. I couldn’t believe it. There were four times that I went in front of the judge: first they presented the case, next they figured out the charges, next they started working on the case, then they made a decision. But there were several months between each court appearance. I had never gotten in trouble before. Just a few misdemeanors when I was younger. But I had to wait in jail for 18 months. It was my fault, though. I should have renewed my green card.”humansofny“I shot my father in the brain but I was acquitted because he abused me.”humansofny“Serving in the army, you can say that I was a pawn in another person’s game. But you can say the same thing about someone that works at JP Morgan. Sometimes it seemed like the elites were playing chess with our lives. They trained me to jump out of planes and kill people. I didn’t have anything against the Iraqis. I wasn’t fighting against them. I was fighting to get home to my family. So was I a pawn? Maybe. But if it weren’t for the higher-ranking people in the military who saw potential in me, and encouraged me to get an education and become a leader, I’d never even have achieved broad enough horizons to ask these types of questions.”humansofny“I was the stereotypical kid from Harlem. I was a good student until 4th grade, but then I started going down the wrong path. My friends started making fun of me for raising my hand too much, so I stopped participating in class. Instead of playing on the playground, I followed my friends and went to steal bikes. I had no direction by the time I finished high school. So I decided joined the army. To my surprise, I placed in the 96th percentile on the entrance exam. My superior officer recommended that I stay late and study for advancement, so I did. Then he recommended that I go to City College, so I did. I just finished twenty years of service, and now I want to go to law school. Sometimes I look back and think that the army took the young years of my life. But I was going nowhere. If the army hadn’t taken my youth, I wouldn’t have these older years.”humansofny“I felt relief when I finally got evicted from my apartment. I was always behind on my rent, so I spent so much psychic energy worrying about what was going to happen. It was like waiting for a surgery. I was just glad it was over with. I’d rather be homeless. The worst part of being homeless is that people associate it with craziness. I have a gym membership. I go to movies, but mainly so I can get some sleep in the theater. I’ve never begged though. If I got hungry enough, I’d rather steal. There’s something so dehumanizing about putting yourself completely at the mercy of another person.”humansofny“This picture is from our senior class trip to Disney World. I was much more confident then. I thought I was going to be a business owner. I’d recently gone to regionals in a business plan competition. I’d grown up poor, though. I didn’t even have my own bed until I was 13. So right out of college I was making more money than my father ever made. And I got content. I should have kept my dream alive. But I just went straight out and got a job, then a car payment, then a mortgage, then a family, and pretty soon I had so many obligations that I couldn’t change my path.”humansofny“One day you wake up and you’re 45 years old. When I was young, I thought I’d be a CEO by now. I thought I’d put in 100 hours a week for as long as it took, and nothing would stop me. But then I had a family. And things changed. Expenses grew and I had less time to devote to my career. Recently I’ve been between jobs. I thought I’d have a nice retirement and education fund by now. I thought I’d have peace of mind. But now it’s starting to look like I’m going to have to work until I die at my desk.”humansofny“I graduated college early because I was eager to get into the real world, but the job search is tougher than I imagined. I think people are afraid to hire me because I’m young. I’ve probably applied to over two hundred jobs. I’ve found that for every ten applications, I get one call back. And for every five call backs, I get one in-person interview. I’ve had seven of those so far.”
"Do you wish you hadn’t graduated early?”
“I try not to think about it. I could apply to ten more jobs in the time I spent thinking about that.”humansofny“We first met at a café in the West Village, and I was completely taken by her. But the next day I had to leave for a six-week trip to Afghanistan. Soon after I arrived, I bought her a traditional Afghan locket that holds a small prayer. Instead of a prayer, I wrote a little poem, and stuffed it inside. It said: ‘Mountains and months away, and I’m still haunted by one afternoon in New York.’”humansofny“I used to be 300 lbs. I thought that when I lost all the weight, a light switch would suddenly flip on and I’d be driven and inspired. But the self-judgment just shifted. Sometimes when I’m jogging, I’ll see a woman who is fitter than me, and I’ll think: ‘No matter how much I run, I’ll never look like that.’ It’s the same voice in my head as before. Only difference is now I’m better at telling it to shut the fuck up.”humansofny“Alopecia is a weird disease to wrap your head around. It causes your immune system to turn against your body, and your hair falls out. I used to have a big blond fro that was a big part of my identity. It was hard to not get depressed when it disappeared. I started to think: ‘What value do I have if even my body doesn’t like itself?’ As I lost more and more hair, I kept trying to comb my remaining hair over my bald spots. Eventually I had to embrace it. On my 20th birthday, I decided that instead of having a bunch of little bald spots that I don’t like, I'm going to give myself one big one that I do like.”humansofny"I'm taking a break from setting goals."humansofny“I grew up very religious, and I was taught to think that people with alternative lifestyles were just ‘confused.’ But now it seems to me that gender and sexuality are so bendable and flexible. I’ve been going to a lot of poetry readings lately, and people present themselves in such raw forms. And they don’t seem confused at all. They are being so honest and transparent in their poetry. How are you supposed to object and say that ‘who they are’ is wrong?”humansofny“I was 16 when my girlfriend got pregnant. We went to the abortion clinic on 59th Street. We filled out the papers and everything. Then right before we were called back, we looked at each other, and said: ‘Let’s get out of here.’”humansofny“My mom was driving me home from school when I told her that my girlfriend was pregnant. She’s a taxi driver, so we were in her yellow cab. My whole body was hot because I was so nervous. When I finally told her, she pulled over to the side of the road, slapped me across the chest, and said: ‘Don’t ask me for shit anymore! It’s your time to become a man.’”humansofny“I used to think I was just ‘go with the flow.’ Now I’m realizing that I can’t make a decision. But mainly just with small stuff. I can be decisive about important things, I think. Maybe.”humansofny“I like to organize clubs. I’ve started three of them. The first one is called the SWANK Club, which stands for Second Wives And No Kids. That one is self-explanatory. After that, I started the ‘M’ Club. That one is all women with names that start with ‘M.’ Right now it’s me, Marilyn, Mary, and Maureen. We meet on Mondays and go to restaurants that start with ‘M.’ Then there’s the Adventure Club. I started that one with my friend Bonnie because she couldn’t be in the SWANK Club or the ‘M’ Club.”humansofny“I’ve spent my life trying to undo habits—especially habits of thinking. They narrow your interaction with the world. They’re the phrases that come easily to your mind, like: ‘I know what I think,’ or ‘I know what I like,’ or ‘I know what’s going to happen today.’ If you just replace ‘know’ with ‘don’t know,’ then you start to move into the unknown. And that’s where the interesting stuff happens.”humansofny"He sucks his thumb when he sleeps."humansofny"I fell in love with the first girl I dated. Then one day she told me: 'If you were a boy, this would be perfect.'"humansofny“She died three months ago. She seemed to be feeling better, but suddenly she had a couple bad seizures at home and didn’t recover. I don’t know if it was an infection, or if the cancer had gotten to her brain. I wish I had done an autopsy. Because now I’ll never know.”
“Why do you need to know?”
“My psychiatrist asked me the same thing. He said he wanted to give me a pill so I wouldn’t obsess so much over Ellen’s death. I told him I don’t want a pill. I want an answer.”humansofny“My happiest memory was the first long road trip we took together. We drove to Nova Scotia. There were three of us—Ellen, me, and her son from a previous marriage. Our Volvo broke down and we had to wait three days for parts. It was pouring down rain the whole time, but we found a friendly fisherman who helped us forage for clams and lobster and seaweed. When we were lying in the tent at night, her son said to me: ‘I didn’t like you at first. But I like you now.’”humansofny“Her mother had breast cancer so she had a mammogram every six months. All of them came back clear. Then one morning a nodule just popped to the surface. We thought our dog had maybe jumped on her and caused a bruise. The doctor didn’t think a malignant tumor could grow that fast, but he did a biopsy anyway. He said he saw a ‘strange shadow.’ It turned out to be metaplastic cancer-- meaning that the cells continually change and it’s almost impossible to treat. The survival rate was something like .05 percent. When I started to read the literature about it, I was crushed. I’m naturally a very cynical and pessimistic person. But I wanted to give her hope, so I did all the research I could. And I ended up giving myself hope as well.”humansofny"I'm not trying to get into a deep conversation right now. I'm more paint and less talk."humansofny“I’ve been going through chemo for six months now. Sometimes I’ll come home from the hospital and I won’t even want to look in the mirror. I feel disfigured. I’ll have drains attached to me that he has to help measure and adjust. We’ve been together for a long time. When something like this happens, you find out what you’ve been working for all those years.”humansofny"I take secret iPhone photos of awkward situations so I can paint them later."humansofny"This is tougher than the Marine Corps."humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny"I was an international relations major. I was thinking about going into government, but the more I learned about bureaucracy, the more I realized I'd be better off just writing political songs."humansofny"Sometimes we play a game called Bracelets. You put pillows on the ground, sit on them, then play with bracelets."humansofny“I’m OK now, because we’re speaking in generalities, but if you were to ask me about anything specific, like names or dates, I wouldn’t be able to remember them. My mother had it too. It was ten years of her not knowing who anybody was. And I don’t want to be remembered like that. That’s why I’m sitting here alone. I used to have a lot of friends, but I’ve withdrawn from all of them. Group situations are especially hard because I can’t steer the conversation toward something I can remember. And when I do get stuck, it’s more embarrassing. So I’ve missed weddings. I’ve stopped returning calls. I do have one friend who won’t give up on me. He calls me from Florida. And if I’m trying to tell him about a bridge, he’ll list off every bridge in New York City until I remember the one that I’m trying to talk about.”humansofny"I tried to fight it at first. I told myself it was all in my mind. I went to experimental trials. I did mental exercises. But none of it worked. If you tell me a name, I’ll forget it in five minutes. One minute, actually. They’ve got a few medicines but the effects are negligible. So I don’t even bother with the doctor. I read as much as I can so I can hold onto words and spelling for as long as possible. But other than that, there’s nothing left to do but wait."humansofny"I'm going to a birthday party."humansofny"I'm the muscle."humansofny"We grew up poor. We were on every form of government assistance. I grew up in a world where I could never predict what would happen or when it would happen. It was chaos all the time. I did all I could to get out. I made good grades. I went to college. But my mother and sister are still there—working minimum wage jobs, smoking a lot of weed, and making the same mistakes over and over again. There’s no recognition of a pattern. I finally decided that I’m happier when I avoid contact. I don’t enjoy talking to them on the phone. I don’t enjoy visiting. They are both so miserable in their own lives, and it brings me down, so I just stay away. I guess my mother tried in her own way. But that’s not enough for me."humansofny“My mom passed away when I was 9, and I didn’t really take her last years very seriously. Most of the time when we went to visit her at the hospital, I thought it was boring, so I’d just go in the other room and watch cartoons. It sounds stupid, but I never knew she was dying because she promised me we’d go fishing.”humansofny“I was just telling her about how her mother and I used to come to these games in the early 80’s. We lost her to a drunk driver five years ago. She really held the household together, so we’re still struggling without her. I think I’m still in shock from that day. She was the one that got the call. I was in the kitchen getting ready for work at 5 AM, and I suddenly I hear her screaming from her room: ‘Mommy’s dead! Mommy’s dead! Mommy’s dead!’”humansofny"He lets us eat more dessert than mom does."humansofny“I’m trying to beat cancer for the fifth time. The first time was in 1997, and the doctor told me that I’d only live for six months. I’ve had it in my armpit, my knee, my back, and twice in my groin. Life keeps throwing me curveballs. I keep hitting them.”humansofny“One time I hit a home run. The pitcher threw the ball, well, the pitcher was my dad, so my dad threw the ball and I hit it all the way to the yellow pole, which means it was a home run. I’m not sure if we won the game or not because we don’t keep score.”humansofny"This is the first time we've been away from her newborn sister."humansofny"I need a dog."humansofny“I’ve spent the last 32 years studying the evolution of nine types of fish from the Embiotocidae family in the northern Pacific. I think it’s about time to retire.”
“What will you do when you retire?”
“Probably study a new type of fish in a different place.”humansofny“I just have this phone because I like small phones. It’s not really a good symbol of conservation. Conservation isn’t some huge sacrifice. It doesn’t mean you can’t have nice things. I’ve got a nice flat screen TV at home, great furniture, a sauna, sporting goods, and all the clothes I can wear. Conservation just means that you aren’t constantly getting rid of perfectly good stuff to replace it with stuff that you don’t need. A perfect table is perfect for hundreds of years. You don’t need a new one every couple years. Our culture is called ‘materialistic,’ but that’s not even correct, because ‘materialism’ implies that we value our possessions. And we don’t. We get rid of them, then we destroy Africa to get more shit that nobody needs. There’s no more pressing problem right now than the depletion of the earth. The earth can tolerate a lot of punishment, but if there isn’t a change in the way we consume, there is no way it can survive. We will gladly give money help people in need. But we can’t equate the act of conservation with helping billions of people for generations to come.”humansofny“I’m the assistant manager at a nice restaurant. I’m happy with my job, but I work thirteen hours a day and I’m not able to save a lot of money. My wife is a beautiful woman, and sometimes I feel guilty that she chose me. I feel a lot of responsibility for some of the stress she's under. She could have been with a much wealthier man. Instead she’s having to worry about whether we have enough money to have kids.”humansofny“My older brother died of AIDS in 1990. He lived with me during his last four years and I took care of him. It was hard for him because he was so proud. He wouldn’t let me wheel him outside because he didn’t want people to see him. He didn’t want to let me feed him. If he fell down, he wouldn’t call for me. He was like that even when we were kids. One time when he was ten years old, he fell on the street and cut his arm open on a piece of glass. He had to go to the hospital to get stitches, and I cried about it more than he did. But toward the end of his life, late at night, I’d hear him crying in the bathroom. The first time it happened I knocked on the door. But he wiped his eyes and acted like nothing was wrong. So after that I didn’t knock any more.”humansofny“I stay out until midnight every night because I don’t want to go home. We had a good marriage for 17 or 18 years, but then he started becoming frightened and paranoid. He began to think that people were watching him. Over the years it has gotten worse and worse. He let all my parakeets loose last March. Then he sold all my jewelry and furniture and artwork. Then in November he killed my dog. She was an old Rottweiler. She wasn’t in the best health but she certainly wasn’t dying. He just called me at the theater and said: ‘I took your dog to the hospital. She’s dead.’ Part of me feels sorry for him because he’s so broken, but the cruelty is overwhelming. I just keep thinking about how scared my dog must have been.”humansofny“Nepal is my home, and my family and community are there. The country needs educated people like me to rebuild, but there isn’t much opportunity for those who return. The recent earthquake made me very sad that I’m not there. But then again, a part of me was happy I’m not.”humansofny"America seemed a lot easier when I was looking at it from Honduras."humansofny“We’d been together for a couple years. One night I asked him if he ever thought about our future together, and he said ‘not really.’ So we broke up. He started dating someone new. I unfollowed him on Instagram and Twitter and Facebook. The other day he came over for the first time in months and fixed my remote control. So I started following him again. When he got the notification, he asked me why I had unfollowed him in the first place. I didn’t know how to say: ‘Because it hurts to see pictures of you being happy without me.’”humansofny"I'm homosexual and I'm afraid about what my future will be and that people won't like me."humansofny‘HONY: Stories’ is being released on October 13th, which is just over three months away! The first book represented HONY during its teenage years. Now HONY is a fully formed adult—with less acne, a full beard, and that embarrassing misdemeanor charge from Spring Break expunged from our record. ‘HONY: Stories’ will be filled with the quotes that have come to define the blog in the last few years. These were largely absent from the first book, not because I chose to exclude them, but because they didn’t quite exist yet. Lastly, at 432 pages, ‘HONY: Stories’ is 100 pages longer than the first book, with a great deal of exclusive material. And we’ve managed to keep the same price because we are printing quite a few of them.

ANYWAY, I was going to post this little reminder after the holiday weekend. But I noticed this morning that Amazon has just marked the book down 48% for some reason, so if you’d like to preorder now, you can get it for $15.70. I’ve been glancing at the price every few days, and it’s always changing, but this is by far the lowest I’ve seen. I’m hoping it will last through the day. (Because of Amazon’s price guarantee, anyone who has already ordered the book will get the same price.) Thanks everyone! And have a great holiday. Link to book in bio. Edit: As of 12:30 PM EST, Amazon has changed the status of the book to 'Currently Unavailable,' a status which I've never seen before. Perhaps we enraged them with our Sherlockesque price sleuthing.humansofny"I'm an immigrant, I wasn't that great of a student, and I've never met my father. So I've got a lot of people to prove wrong."humansofnyI've always wondered if this would ever happen.humansofny“It was like walking on eggshells every time I came home. Everything seemed to annoy her. I think she was tired of pretending that she loved me, and she only stopped being angry when I agreed to the divorce. It’s been a year and a half now. Things are less stressful in a lot of ways. But I went alone to the beach with the kids recently. And as I watched them play, I realized that it no longer feels like I'm building something."humansofny"I'm a sucker, and she's my only daughter. 'Buy me a new bicycle so I can go on rides with you,' she said."humansofny“My father is an Egyptian immigrant, and all he ever cared about was our education. He used to print out these huge packets of math problems from the internet. Sometimes they would be 200 pages, and after school he’d make us do them at the kitchen table until midnight. He’d hit us if we got them wrong. One day I got a C on a math quiz, and I thought he was going to kill me, so I ran to the police station. I think he gave up on us that day. Now he just ignores us. I tried to kill myself last year by walking onto a busy highway. I just stood at the edge for thirty minutes until someone from my school told the principal. They put me in a mental hospital for two weeks. My dad didn’t talk to me for a month after I came back. When he finally did, he said: ‘Do you have any idea how much your hospital bill cost?’”humansofny“I think the peak of acting is when you’re on stage, and completely committed to a character, and not even in the real world. That’s why I decided to be an actor. I thought there’d be a lot of those moments. Instead it’s been a lot of marketing and auditioning and rejection and very few of those moments. I knew it would be hard, and that I’d have to put in a lot of effort without anything bouncing back, but I thought that things would come along occasionally to reenergize me. There hasn’t been much of that. I’m getting close to thirty now, so I began looking hard at going back to school for a more practical degree. But then I got a role that got me excited about acting again. We’ve been rehearsing every night for the past month, and the show just opened two nights ago. Now they’re already saying that we might have to close soon because of low ticket sales.”humansofny"I'm going to be a big sister!"humansofny“We got in a car accident two weeks after we were married. We were driving to Houston in the early morning, and we hit a tractor-trailer. My entire left leg was shattered. She had twelve broken ribs and a punctured lung. I remember how weird it felt, only having been married for two weeks, having to sign papers to approve her emergency invasive surgery. We ended up having to stay in the hospital for two months. They gave us rooms side by side. We ate all our meals together, went to all our rehab together, and every evening before bedtime, we’d wheel around together and visit all the patients who didn’t have any family.”humansofny"I met my wife on a flight from Chicago to Houston. I was sitting in 3A and she was sitting in 3B. I fly first class all the time because I get free upgrades, but she had one of those bargain basement tickets, so we still have no idea how she got seated in a first class seat. I remember saying ‘howdy’ when she sat down, but for the first part of the flight, I just put in my earplugs and worked on my laptop. I’d already been divorced, so I had no inclination of meeting someone. But when the food was served, we started talking, and I learned that she had a PhD in children’s learning studies. I’m an engineer, so we started talking about statistical models. At the end of the flight, I gave her my email address, and told her: ‘If you’re interested in getting dinner, send me an email.’ When I told my friend about it, he said: ‘You gave her an email address? You’ll never hear from her again!’”humansofny"I tried drinking some Drano in January because I didn't think anyone would care. I was right about nobody caring, but I threw up the Drano before it could work."humansofny“They would always be in the basement, and I’d think: ‘I’m sure it’s fine, they’re my parents.’ But as I grew older, I noticed that a lot of the time, even when we were together, they weren’t ‘quite there.’ And sometimes when I knocked on the bathroom door, I’d hear my mom hurriedly cleaning something up. Then one day I found a crack pipe. I’d say we’ve probably lived in 20 or 25 states because my dad can’t keep a job. We went from houses, to small suburban apartments, to small inner city apartments. They make up for it with how much they care about me, I suppose. They always cook me dinner. They accept who I am. They always tell me they love me. But there’s never any money for art supplies, or gas, or college. And every time they tell me they’re going to do something, they never do it. They’ve told me so many times they were going to visit colleges with me. But it’s never the right time.”humansofny"I'm under a lot of pressure right now."humansofny"We met at camp. We started off as friends. We did archery and rock climbing and art classes together. We each went to the camp dance with a boy, but afterwards we walked around and looked at the stars. Then we joked about kissing. Then we kissed."humansofny“One of her teachers told me that she called one of her friends a ‘dog,’ and I was so disappointed that I started crying. I don’t know where she got that from, but it was not from my house. We have never compared people to animals. I think she was trying to impress some other kids that don’t share her soul. We had a long talk. Then I called the other parents and apologized. And we’ve had several play dates since then, and she’s been very kind.” -------------------------------- ---------------Mila made the clothing she is wearing. Anyone interested in seeing more of her work can find her here: @kamourandcohumansofny"We don't very well speak English yet."humansofny“I need to start speaking up when people talk down to me. Every time I keep quiet, I lose a little more confidence.”humansofny“I’m tired of driving a cab. So I decided to start dressing funky and see what happens.”humansofny“It’s hard to talk to girls. I try not to look at them as girls, and just look at them as people, but it’s hard. Because they look like girls.”humansofny"I want to be a fairy when I grow up."
"What's the best part about being a fairy?"
"Flying around with your friends."humansofny“It was hard growing in the South as a biracial kid without a father. But I had some great male role models. My neighbor was an old school Italian guy named Bernard Monti. He let me be part of his family. I could walk right into his house after school without even knocking. One day when I was in 6th grade, I came into his house crying because an 8th grader across the street had called my mom a nigger lover. Mr. Monti told me that I was teaching the kid to disrespect me. He told me to go back across the street and do what I had to do. So I did. And I got my ass beat. But the kid never picked on me again.”humansofny“My father was pretty much non-existent after the age of seven. He’d call occasionally, and say things like ‘I’m going to visit more,’ or ‘I’m going to help you with this,’ but he’d never follow through. He started a new family, and I think he convinced himself that he wasn’t needed because my mother would take good care of us. The last time I talked with him was the age of 18. I called him from my freshman dorm room at college, and I said: ‘Either be a father, or leave me alone, and stop holding me back.’ He said: ‘I can’t be that person for you.’ So I never spoke with him after that. I never reached out because I didn’t want to give him the satisfaction of knowing I’d turned out OK despite his decisions. When he died, I realized that we’d both been too proud to start a relationship. I should have swallowed my pride and been the bigger man.”humansofny“I told the older one that he could take karate lessons, but when I did research, I found out that it was $150 week. That was more than we could afford. But I paid it anyway because I made a commitment. And if I break a promise, I’m teaching them that they can break a promise too. I want them to know that my ‘yes’ means ‘yes,’ and my ‘no’ means ‘no.’”humansofny“I’ve been working on my doctorate for ten years now. I’m learning the hard lesson that the work I do is small. And the further I get down the road, the more I doubt that I have something new to add to the discussion. I try to keep encouraging myself. The other day I wrote in the margin of my notebook: ‘You have something to say!’”humansofny“I grew up in South Africa. My parents were immigrants from China, and all they do is work. It cost them a lot to send me here to study. After paying for my school, they don’t have much left to spend on themselves or my younger siblings. I feel like I took all the opportunities. And now I’m not sure that I enjoy what I majored in.”humansofny“Even though the business eventually failed, I view it as a success. My dad was an immigrant from the Dominican Republic. He’d take any job he could get just to keep food on the table. A lot of times our fridge was empty. There were nights when I only had $1 for dinner, and I’d have to eat nothing but Little Debbie Swiss Cake Rolls. There was a hole in our roof, so we actually had pigeons in our house sometimes. So to come from that, and open my own store, and to get to see it thrive for a little bit--- that means I made it. None of my friends ever did anything like that. Some of them are in jail now. I got to see my mom proud of me. I got to see my grandma proud of me. If the store had survived, that would have been another chapter. But the fact that it existed means that I made it out and I did something.”humansofny“This used to be my store. I put everything I had into it. I dropped out of school when I was 16, and by working two jobs, I managed to save about $90,000. I spent it all on this store. I was the bookkeeper, the buyer, and the sales guy. We even made a profit our first year. I think it was $213, but it was a profit. The happiest moment for me was when we were signing the papers and giving the landlord our deposit. Everything felt so real. The saddest moment was three years later, when that same man was standing over us while we packed our stuff, and he was telling us that we only had an hour to get out.”humansofny"Let me hide the cane. It's only temporary."humansofny“He learned to hum before he learned to speak. In fact, his love of music has really helped him get past his speech delay, because he wants so bad to sing along with every song that comes on.”humansofny“He probably won’t answer you. He has a speech delay. He talks plenty at home, but strangers have a hard time understanding him. So he’s learned that if he just smiles a lot, people will like him, and they won’t know that he has trouble speaking.”humansofny“When I got Student of The Month, Ms. Gabriel gave me two certificates, one pencil, and a cupcake. Then she told me that I didn’t have to do any homework that week, but I told her: ‘I want to do my homework!’”humansofny“She keeps my spirit from getting heavy because she's always bringing out the little girl out in me. She’s always getting me to skip, or jump, or do jumping jacks, or laugh at silly jokes.”humansofny“My husband works in a supermarket and I’m a paralegal. He lives with his aunt and I live with my mother, because we can't afford to live together.”humansofny“What’s your favorite thing about your mom?”
“She always says ‘You can do it.’ But in Spanish.”humansofny“I’m single, unemployed, and late middle-aged. But I don’t really get sad. I just don’t think sadness is in my brain chemistry. When I go home to my apartment, I’ve got a faucet that releases both hot and cold water. You know how many billions of people don’t even have clean drinking water? And I’ve got two types of clean water: hot and cold.”humansofny“There were 50 of us on a fishing boat when the engine broke in the middle of the ocean.”humansofny“What’s your favorite thing about your Mom?”
“She’s better at waking me up than Dad. Dad is way too cheerful in the morning.”humansofny“She has such a deep joy for life. She’s the one that taught me that no matter what happens, we’ll be just fine. I’ve always been so serious and ambitious, but I haven’t always been able to live up to my own standards. I wanted to get into a top law school, but that didn’t happen-- I went to a fourth tier law school instead. Then after I graduated, I kept failing to get the job I wanted. But after each setback, she always gave me the sense that no matter what happened, we’d be just fine. She taught me that early on. So when her health problems started, I knew that even if she’s never able to walk again—we’ll be just fine."humansofny“I’ve been having nerve issues, and this past year it’s gotten so bad that it hurts too much for me to walk. It was completely unexpected. I’ve always been such an optimistic person, but now I’m fighting with depression. He’s doing everything he can to take my mind off of it. We’re not sure if I’m going to get better, but he’s planning a backpacking tour through Europe for when I do. And I told him that I didn’t think I could handle a visit to New York right now, but he told me that he’d push me around the whole city. And he has. And whenever I feel particularly down, he tells me that he’s not going anywhere, and how happy he is that he married me. Not long ago I had a particularly rough period, and when I was at one of my lowest moments, he asked if we could renew our vows.”humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“My parents are fundamentalist Christians. I love them, but I have to lie to them a lot about my life.”humansofny“Seven years ago, I was sitting on the ledge of a thirteenth floor window. I’d tried to quit drinking so many times but I couldn’t do it, and I’d finally given up. My mind was racing through all the shameful things I’d done, and I kept hearing this voice saying: ‘Jump you piece of shit. Jump you piece of shit.’ So I put my hands over my ears and started rocking back and forth on the window ledge. Suddenly I heard this small, still voice: ‘Say a prayer,’ it said. And I didn’t want to hear it. It was kind of like your mother knocking on the door while you’re watching porn. But then I heard it again: ‘Say a prayer.’ So I started praying, and I totally surrendered, and I felt an evil presence leave me. And I just kept saying: ‘I can’t believe you still love me. I can’t believe you still love me.’ Then I cleaned up my room, threw away my baggies of coke, took a shower, and went to work.”humansofny“Growing up in Grenada, we had a little black-and-white TV that only got one channel. We’d see shows about America and everything looked so perfect. Every few months, one of my American uncles would visit and they’d always show off and bring expensive gifts. So when I finally got a chance to come here, I was excited. I landed at night and took a taxi to my uncle’s house in Brooklyn. The next morning I walked outside and there was dog shit and garbage everywhere. I hadn’t seen any of that on the television.”humansofny"I'm not his father. I'm his friend."
"How'd you meet?"
"I love his mother. And it was a package deal."humansofny“I think I need to learn discipline. I don’t think I ever learned it when I was young. I had one of those typical inner city stories. My mom was addicted to drugs so I had no bedtime. No wake-up time. No chores to do. Those sound like simple things but they aren’t. I’ve seen a lot of people in college who are able to work really hard at something even if they aren’t very interested in the subject, and I think that’s because they learned discipline.”humansofny“My wife is my anchor. I didn’t fully appreciate it until I was older. I was so focused on my own course, I didn’t realize that this place of solace was developing around me. And I had very little to do with it.”humansofny“I was twenty years old when I had him. I thought: ‘I haven’t even figured things out for myself yet. How am I going to figure them out for someone else?’”humansofny"This is the cleanest bathroom in New York City."humansofny“I was visiting from California when I met him. I was with a bridal shower at a bar on Long Island, and he seemed so different than all the other guys there. We danced for hours, and then we went outside and sat on a dock and talked all night long. We spent the next three weeks together before I returned home. Soon he came out to visit me, and when he left, believe it or not, he put a Humans of New York book on my bed with a letter inside that said: ‘I want you to come to New York.’ So I did, and we dated for a year. Then he dumped me on Valentine’s Day.”humansofny"We prepare for people's worst days."humansofny"My wife and I are trying to cut back on the language at home. Something fell off the kitchen table last week, and my four year old daughter said: 'Oh shit!' So not only has she learned to cuss, but she's learned to cuss correctly."humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny"My wife thinks she's The Chief."humansofny“I don’t want to say I was depressed, but my life has been pretty humdrum for the past eighteen years. Every day I’d wake up, eat breakfast, go to church, go back home—always the same thing. But now I’ve met this woman and suddenly I feel young again. I can’t concentrate. All I want to do is be with her. I used to eat whenever I wanted, but now I can get by on just a banana. I’m even trying to improve myself. I’m doing pushups in the morning. Can you believe that? Four herniated discs in my back, and I’m doing pushups every morning.”humansofny"Can we make this quick? They're serving tea at church."humansofny“I’ve got a seven month old daughter at home. I want to be her favorite so I’m always trying to make her smile. I might slip her a little ice cream when mom’s not looking. Then I pretend like I don’t know why she’s having trouble falling asleep.”humansofny“I don’t miss my old life as much as I feared I would.”humansofny“We were married for eleven years.”
“How did you meet?”
“I’m a carpenter and she needed some work done. I spent four months working on her house: I added two closets, redid the floors, and painted the place. On the last day, I was about to leave, and I said to her: ‘You know, I was thinking about asking you to dinner.’ And she leaned over and kissed me.”humansofny“My wife died five years ago today. She went in the hospital on May 16th. My sister is a nurse, and when she heard it was meningitis, she told me to prepare myself. She spent 24 days in a coma. I brought a radio with me and I sang to her and read her books all day long. On June 8th, she woke up from her coma, and all she said was: “I’m worried.” I told her not to worry, and that I’d see her in the morning. But at 4 AM they called me at home and told me she didn’t make it.”humansofny“My youngest son was fooling around with some friends, and somebody got called a ‘pussy,’ and then somebody got shot. And now he’s doing 20 years. That’s my baby boy. I always told him it would happen. I used to come home from work late at night, and he’d be gone, and I’d find him in the streets and chase him back inside. After he went to prison, I asked him: ‘What more could I have done?’ And he started crying and said: ‘Nothing, Dad. You raised me right. Everything you told me was right. There was nothing you could have done.’”humansofny"As a young queer kid, I always chose the female characters in fighting games. I think it was my way of being subversive before I knew what it meant to be subversive."humansofny"I got in trouble in Spanish class for humping the wall."humansofny“I’ve got lots of ideas for inventions so I’m going to be a millionaire.”
“What sort of inventions?”
“Flying shoes. A Hoverboard. A freeze ray. A robot of Michael Jordan. A robot of me. And a big robot that’s two million feet tall that I can live in. That’s it for now.”humansofny"I went to Coney Island and went on a ride that went round and round and upside down and I wasn't scared."humansofny"We met at one of those 'woo woo' New Age conferences. I think it was during a workshop about communicating with animals. I mean, don't get me wrong-- I love animals. But this took it a little too far."humansofny"We met on a dating site twelve years ago. I sent her a message saying: 'I want to let you know up front that I'm in a wheelchair, because I can't hide it.' And she wrote back: 'Why? Is it bright yellow?'"humansofny“The word ‘poser’ hits me on a deep personal level. In high school I was called a poser a lot. Like when I first rode a fixed gear bike, or tried to break dance, or dressed punk. Just because I’m interested and passionate about something new doesn’t mean I’m trying to fit in with a certain crowd. It just really bothers me when people try to tell me what I am and what I’m not.”humansofny"I want to be a mailman so I can let people know when it's their birthday."humansofny“I do maintenance in the housing projects. I replace fixtures, do carpentry work, and fix electrical problems. I get a lot of joy from it. I love seeing how happy people get when they see that something is being done. My favorite is when I’ve fixed up an apartment for a new tenant. Sometimes the people moving in have been homeless, and they are so excited to have a home. The kids walk around the apartment with really big eyes, like: ‘We get to live here?’”humansofny“I’d always wanted to be a teacher, but when my son was born I had to drop out of college and enter the workforce. I was depressed about it for a little while. It felt like my life was in vain. I watched my best friend finish college and become a teacher and a coach, which is exactly what I’d wanted to do. I was stuck working as a carpenter and doing odd jobs. But once my kids began to develop, it started to feel like my life had meaning again. Both of them graduated from college. And both of them are teachers now.”humansofny“I never expected to be an exterminator. But my sister found a job posting for an exterminator position and they said they’d train me, so I gave it a shot. I was scared at first. But they teach you in training that rats and bugs are just as scared of you as you are of them. They really want nothing to do with you. Well, except for bed bugs. They want to suck your blood.”humansofny"I changed three times before I left the house."humansofny“I’ve been trying to come to terms with my biological father. I didn’t meet him until I was 34, and I was a bit let down. I was hoping that he’d admit to more than he did. He admitted that he’d made a mistake, but he acted like everything was out of his control. He couldn’t admit that he had made a conscious decision to remove himself from the household. But I’ve been reflecting on it lately. I just don’t think my father is able to admit something that he hasn’t come to terms with himself. I’ve been making that a condition of having a relationship, but I’m 40 years old now. I have a family of my own and I’m getting a Masters degree in conflict resolution. I always tell people to love me the way I am or move on. Maybe I should apply the same standard to him.”humansofny“I told my daughter to wash the dishes, and she called me an alcoholic. It really hurt. I’ve known I was an alcoholic since I was a teenager, but that was the first time that someone else had called me one.”humansofny“I graduated from Columbia a couple weeks ago. I think I took college too much for granted. I’d do anything to avoid studying. Now I can’t find a job and I’m working as a counselor at a summer camp. It makes me want to go to the library and read a book.”humansofny“In 1968, I discovered a very eccentric pronunciation of Hebrew blended with the dialect of Provencal. There was only one man remaining who spoke it, so I met him in Monaco and recorded his voice. And I did it all without Google.”humansofny"I'm not very good at comforting people. They're like: 'I'm having a horrible day.' And I'm like: 'Oh.'"humansofny"I don't have any big dreams. Back in Croatia, my mother worked in a bread factory and my father was unemployed. So I started working in restaurants as soon as I left high school. I don't know... maybe one day I'll open a hostel by the sea."humansofny“We met three years ago in Grand Central Station. I got stuck working late so I missed my train and was in a terrible mood. I went to get some food at the bar, and the only stool open was next to him. I asked if anyone was sitting there, and he told me ‘no,’ and helped me take off my coat. A few minutes later, his son came back from a cigarette break, and I was in his seat. All of us spent the next two hours talking. When I left, his son chased me down, handed me his business card, and said: ‘I think my dad really likes you. If you think you might like him too, please send me an email.’”humansofny"I want to be a policeman."
"What's the best part about being a policeman?"
"Fixing the cars and the streets and the trees."humansofny"I found her fifteen months ago in a Walmart parking lot in Chico, California. Since then she's been to every state except Florida. Alaska, twice."humansofny"What do you want to be when you grow up?"
"A doctor and a mommy."humansofny"I had a ton of fun during the Korean War. There were 10-15 gay soldiers on the base. As long as we weren't seen doing anything, they could't discharge us. So we all rented a hotel room once a month, plastered the wall with Playbills from A Streetcar Named Desire, and had lots of sex."humansofny"I'm trying to undo the awful propaganda against rats and pigeons." @motherpigeonbrooklynhumansofny"He pinches me sometimes."humansofny“I’m practicing my lines. I just got off work and I’ve got an all night shoot tonight. I’m playing a goofy senator in a small independent film. I’m 81 now, and I didn’t even begin acting until I was 76. I always wanted to do it since I was a kid, so I thought it was now or never. I’d love to get just one meaty part in a movie.”humansofny“I’m writing in my journal. When I was in 11th grade, I had an English teacher named Ms. Lois Bricklin who required us to write in a journal every day. Then at the end of each marking period, we were supposed to turn in our journal. For the first two marking periods, I wrote all my entries right before the journal was due, and then backdated them. But for the third marking period, I actually made an effort to do it every day. By the fourth marking period, I was hooked. I haven’t missed a day in over 30 years. It’s like brushing my teeth. I turned 50 in January, so my latest entries have been very reflective. I’ve been questioning whether I’m living the life that I wanted to live.”humansofny"For two years, I wouldn't get home until after 1 AM. Now I can be a dad again."humansofny"My husband died of cancer 18 months ago. But every day I still get to see his smile, his kindness, and his sense of humor."humansofny"She had me when she was a teenager. So this is her accomplishment as much as mine."humansofny"I'm an illegal immigrant."humansofny"Why God gave me only girls, only he knows."humansofny"If I sit alone I get a little more money, so I just doodle to keep myself busy."humansofny“I grew up in West Harlem where there wasn’t much opportunity. When I got my job with the MTA, suddenly I was making five times more money than I had ever made before. So all I could think about was not wasting the opportunity. Once I worked a whole month straight with no days off. With overtime, I think I clocked 180 hours during a two-week period. I felt like any time that I wasn’t working was time wasted. These days I don't work nearly as much.
“What caused the change?”
“She broke up with me for awhile.”humansofny“I wasn’t the first woman he pulled over his garbage truck for.”
“But she was the last.”humansofny"I've only been playing for three weeks. I had to miss a couple practices already because I tried to catch the ball and it hit me in the face."humansofny“I want to play in the NBA. Or be a mortician.”
“Why a mortician?”
“I liked the way that my uncle was dressed at his funeral. And if I’m a mortician when someone in my family passes away, then I can take care of their body. Also my science teacher went on the internet for me and found out that morticians make $54,000 a year.”humansofny"She knows what I need to hear, and is good at recognizing when I'm willing to hear it."humansofny"I hit the game winning shot in the '75 City Junior College Championships."humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny"There are days when I can be great at my job and there are days when I can be a great mom. I'm trying to have as many days that I can do both at the same time. And I'm learning to forgive myself on the days that I can't."humansofny"I just defended my dissertation."humansofny“I can walk around this city and point to 200 or 300 buildings I’ve worked on. Sometimes I go a little overboard with the pointing.”humansofny“We always let her do her own thing. When she was in first grade, she decided she wanted to go to church. So we drove her there every Sunday morning, dropped her off, and picked her up when the service was done. The church directory was so funny. There were all these family pictures, and then there was the poor little orphan Eileen. She stopped going to church at sixteen. So I guess you can say it worked.”humansofny"I cried so hard when they called her name that I started choking and my son asked if I needed an ambulance."humansofny“She got here, but she got here the hard way. If she’d listened to me in the first place, she’d have gotten here the easy way.”humansofny“We were living in London. My school year started a couple months before hers ended, so I had to leave early for New York. She was always very supportive of me. She told all her friends at school that her mom was going to “Coo-Loom-Byah.”humansofny"Dad, please don't say anything stupid."humansofny“When I was depressed, it felt like I was walking through mud all the time. My head was filled with thoughts like, ‘If my friends knew who I really was, they wouldn’t love me.’ And, ‘What right do I have to exist?’ And, eventually, ‘Why do any of us have the right to exist?’ If people were being kind to me, I wasn’t able to access that kindness. It wouldn’t produce a feeling in me. If a child smiled at me from a stroller, it might lift me up for a millisecond, but then I’d fall back into darkness. Before I was depressed, I could find joy in things so easily. I worked as a gardener, and I learned the calls of the birds so I could tell where they were just by listening. I loved to show new plants and insects to children, and see how excited they’d get. I made a 50th birthday card for my sister, and got strangers from all over the world to write ‘Happy Birthday’ in their language. But during my depression, I couldn’t access any of that joy. I’d try reminding myself that other people had bigger problems. I’d try telling myself to quit being weak, and to snap out of it. But nothing worked.”humansofny“I’m trying to come back to work after a period of depression. I’ve battled it off-and-on my whole life, but two years ago the wheels just completely came off. I’d just had a wonderful Thanksgiving dinner with my friends, and I went to sleep in a good mood, but then the next day I couldn’t get out of bed. I was still in bed four days later when my boss started calling. The next two years were a battle. I lost my job. I was hospitalized three times. I filled a giant binder with information about depression, where to find programs, and how to appeal your insurance company. I felt like I was fighting for my life. I’d call a hospital that specialized in a certain type of therapy, and they’d tell me they didn’t take my insurance. I’d say: ‘Please help me. I’m dying.’”humansofny"I'm heading back to the office so I'm trying to walk as slow as possible."humansofny“I always wanted kids, but my wife never thought it was the right time. She’s an accountant at a major investment bank. She was the only woman in her position, so she thought if she took time off, she’d fall behind everyone else. She always said: ‘We’ll have kids later.’ Now she’s an account manager, and her job is more secure, but she’s 46 and I think it’s probably too late. A few days ago we were eating breakfast, and a cartoon came on the television, and she said: ‘I wish we’d had a child.’ Then we started talking about adoption a little bit. She seemed unsure, but I’m up for it if she is. Maybe this was God’s way of steering us toward a less fortunate child.”humansofny"He's always taking me to restaurants that I've never been to and introducing me to foods that I've never tried. The first birthday we ever spent together, he took me to this really unique Japanese restaurant. Then he spilled tea on me."
"It was a Chankonabe restaurant. It's the food that sumo wrestlers eat. And it was water, not tea."humansofny“I’m not sure what it is about this job, but the chicks love it. I used to wear a suit and tie to work—nothing. Now I get photographed more than The Beatles.”humansofny"I was retired for a little while. But my wife's 'to-do' list got so long, I thought: 'I'm going back to work.'"humansofny“My daughter’s greatest quality is her humility. She tries hard to not classify people in her mind. I’ve always tried to teach her that humility is a mediator. It will always be the shortest distance between you and another person.”humansofny"I've been trying an online dating site, but haven't had much luck. I met a doctor on there recently, and he seemed pretty normal, so I thought that it might finally be working for me. Then the night before our first date, he called me drunk and started saying some weird sexual stuff."humansofny"I want to be an astronaut."
"What's the hardest part about being an astronaut?"
"Pressing the right buttons at the right time."humansofny“I’m trying to raise three children and not lose who I am. I used to be a fashion buyer, and I got a lot of satisfaction from that, but now it’s so easy for life to be all about the kids. They need me all the time, and my whole identity seems to be wrapped up in seeing them learn and grow every day. So I’m trying to do something everyday that’s just for me. It could be as simple as flipping through a fashion magazine in a café. I just want there to be something left of myself when they grow older and leave the house.”humansofny“I had a rough time in high school. I was in a very deep depression. I’ve always been on the heavy side, so I got bullied a lot because of my size. I didn’t have any friends. There wasn’t a male figure in my life to talk to. Some people cared about me, but I blocked them out of my life. Someone told the school guidance counselor that they'd heard me talking about suicide, so I got sent to the psych hospital for nine days. I was the oldest one there. I met kids who were a lot younger than me, and who’d been through a lot worse things. One of the girls had been raped. The younger kids would come to me for advice, and for the first time I felt like a leader. I left the hospital with a different mindset. I realized that I wasn’t on earth to be helped, but to help others.”humansofny“I try to volunteer two days a week. It’s really been a reality check for me. You see how difficult it can be to live in a city, and how out-of-control people’s lives can become. I’ll never forget one moment last Christmas. I was helping to serve food, and in walked a very well dressed family with two children. The youngest boy didn’t want to eat, so the mother kept trying to coax food into his mouth, but he’d just tighten his lips. Then I heard the father lean in and whisper: ‘You have to eat, because we have no more food at home.’”humansofny"I'm trying to find people on my wavelength."humansofny“I’m supportive of anything that keeps her focused and moving forward. All I can do is try to clear away as much bullshit as possible so that she can access her future. The older she gets, the less I can control, and the less I can protect her from. It's a bit nerve-wracking. I did get her a Swiss Army Knife last week. Because you never know when you’ll need one of those.”humansofny"I had a lot of starts and stops. I dropped out of high school. But my dad has always been very supportive. And I think I'm done feeling out of control now. We just signed up to get my GED."
"And we're going to celebrate with a meatloaf special."humansofny“We broke up when she left for the Peace Corps, with the agreement that we’d revisit things when she came back from Mali. But a few days after she got home, she fell seven stories off a roof and died. She actually wrote me a letter from Mali, but it took so long to be delivered that it arrived a few days after she died. She wrote about how her anti-malarial medication was giving her these vivid dreams. In one of her dreams she was trapped in a falling elevator, and she said the last thing she thought about before she hit the ground was me.”humansofny"What's your greatest struggle right now?"
"Being somebody. The GED isn't helping much."humansofny"I feel much more secure in my current relationship. Everything about my last relationship felt conditional on me measuring up, which magnified my insecurities. There was a tentativeness to everything. It's hard to explain, but it was certainly felt. It could be a slight hesitation in holding hands, or an unwillingness to talk about the future. Or if he did talk about the future, he used tentative pronouns. It was 'his' future and not 'our' future."humansofny"All my ex-wives were pains in the ass. And I love every one of them."humansofny“We teach that education is a great privilege that can lead anywhere, but sometimes I worry that I might be selling them a dream. So I try to teach them what’s possible, but also what’s real. They need to learn that hard work leads to success. But I also tell them that they might need to be a bit more patient than others. Sometimes they ask hard questions, and I try to answer as honestly as possible. A few weeks ago, I was teaching a lesson about segregation, and one of my students raised his hand. He said: ‘If segregation is over, then why are there only black kids at our school?’”humansofny“God sends me little moments all day long to say: ‘You’re not alone, brother.’ Just a little while ago, an old hunched-over Chinese lady smiled at me with the greatest warmth in her eyes.”
“And you think that was a message from God?”
“I think that was God.”humansofny“I tell my class that you can always spot a second grader by how he carries himself. This isn’t first grade anymore. When we have a problem, we aren’t just going to cry about it. We’re going to figure out what we did wrong and how we’re going to fix it. And when we go out in the hallway, we are going to stay controlled, follow directions, and have great posture. Because we want people to know it’s Ms. Washington’s class the moment they see us.”humansofny“I also want to be a writer. I’m actually working on a book right now. It’s a series. When you’re writing a book, you’ve really got to open your imagination. Your book can’t just be about a mean person who eats a banana and learns a lesson, because that’s boring. There needs to be a lot of different parts. There needs to be a protagonist, an antagonist, and some people that you’re not really sure about because that adds mystery. And you can take inspiration from other writers, but don’t plagiarize. My mom and dad are teachers, and they fail anyone who plagiarizes.” ------------------------------------------------This is one of a series of portraits and stories from the Excellence Boys Charter School in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.humansofny“I want to be a wildlife biologist. I really, really, really like animals. I like that lizards have really long tongues, and cheetahs can run really fast, and armadillos have hard shells. I spend a lot of time thinking about what it would be like to not be a human. Like what would it be like to fly? It would also be interesting to not have to go shopping for food, or worry about money. And you could go anywhere you want as long as there weren’t predators nearby. One time my dad brought me some quills from an African Crested Porcupine, and I accidentally broke one of them, and I saw that even though it was hard on the outside, it was soft and spongy on the inside. And it’s been my favorite animal ever since.” ------------------------------------------------This is one of a series of portraits and stories from the Excellence Boys Charter School in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.humansofny“The school was founded to find out why boys were having so much trouble in school. We wanted to know where the gaps are. One thing we found is that boys are naturally competitive, so we give them plenty of opportunities to compete. For the youngest kids, we’ve created a storyline where Shredder has kidnapped all the Ninja Turtles, and he’s going to shrink them and eat them in his soup. We call the students Knowledge Ninjas, and the only way for them to save the turtles is to win points. This week they get points for going to tutoring. Next week they get points for taking notes. At the end of every week, when they get enough points, a teacher comes out dressed as a turtle and the kids celebrate like they won the lottery.” ------------------------------------------------This is one of a series of portraits and stories from the Excellence Boys Charter School in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.humansofny“My students like pro wrestling, so I try to keep up with it so I can talk to them. And if there’s a new video game that I hear them talking about, I’ll go pick it up. The big one now is NBA 2k. I’ve created a player profile and everything. My player is 7’4.” He’s a monster. But anyway, I just want to participate in the conversations they enjoy, because I know there are going to be times when there needs to be a tough conversation. And I want them to know that I cared about them before there was a problem." -------------------------------------------------This is one of a series of portraits and stories from the Excellence Boys Charter School in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.humansofny“I want to be a positive male influence in their lives. We’re big on building foundations. I tell them: ‘There’s not going to be a switch that flips once you become an adult, and suddenly you start acting right. Every decision you make matters. Because once you’re older, you’re going to revert back to the same behavior you have right now. If you have a foundation of rudeness, dishonesty, and not caring, that’s what you’ll fall back on when you’re faced with a challenge. So we need to build a foundation of character.” ---------------------------------------------- This is one of a series of portraits and stories from the Excellence Boys Charter School in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.humansofny"I think she's going to like horror movies as much as I do. She told me her imaginary friend has a bloody jumprope."humansofny“She passed away when we were eleven. Everyone says we look like her. We went to visit our great grandfather before he died, and he was very sick, but when he saw us, he started mouthing: ‘Angie, Angie.’”
“I think I look more like her.”
“I think I do.”humansofny“Our mother was American and our dad was from Ivory Coast. From the ages of two to five, we went to live with my father’s family in Africa, because he wanted us to have culture and discipline. Our mother kept asking when we were coming home, and my father kept stalling, until one day she got so mad she threw a hammer through the wall. The next day she bought a plane ticket. Here’s a photo from the day she came and got us.”humansofny“Our mom had a C-section, so we’re not sure who was born first. But I was named first.”
“But I got into Columbia first.”
“Only because she applied first. But I was captain of the fencing team.”
“She was the official captain, but the team still came to me for advice.”humansofny“I’m trying to go back to college. We took a class trip to the museum recently for my Italian history class. Everyone else in my class is 19 or 20. I felt a little weird.”humansofny“I used to be the dean of a high school in the South Bronx. I played in a recreational basketball league on the weekends, and some guys on my team decided to give me a shot at this job. I can’t say that I feel like I’m making as much of a difference. There was something very tangible about helping a kid go from an 80 to a 90 on a math test. But I think the change has been good for me. I was only making $36,000 a year back then. And I’ve been forced to grow and learn so much. Hopefully one day I can go back and teach them about the markets. Many kids in the inner city don’t realize how the stock market affects their lives. They think it's some faraway thing, and don’t realize how it relates to the clothes they wear and the phones they use.”humansofny“I got very lucky. I started working for a family firm right out of high school. I was just doing clerical stuff in the back room at first. But whenever the boss’s kids didn’t show up for work, I’d raise my hand and say: ‘I can do that!’ So I started to be given more and more responsibility. I was one of the only women on the floor back then. The guys wanted to teach me as much as possible, because that meant they could take more breaks. I used to get teased but I didn’t care, because my older sister had been calling me an idiot my whole life. I thought: ‘Yell at me all you want, I’m going to use you for all the knowledge you have.’ Pretty soon, I was yelling right back at them.”humansofny“My wife had four kids from a previous marriage. I had three. When we first got married, we had seven kids between us under the age of nine. My wife is a better stepmom than I’m a stepdad, but I’m getting better. I’m learning when to keep my mouth shut. Even though I’m super protective of my wife, if one of her children has a disagreement with her, I need to step back a bit. Ultimately I just want everyone to ‘buy in’ to the idea that we’re all on the same team, and that we’re all pulling for each other. Whenever it’s someone’s birthday, we’ll send a group text to all the kids, inviting them to the birthday dinner. It’s such a great feeling to get eight or nine text messages back, saying: ‘I’m in.’”humansofny“They make it tough for working mothers. I don’t know why they have to schedule all of this stuff during the day. My first grader is playing a hammerhead shark in his class play—but it’s at 11 in the morning. And they scheduled the Mother’s Day Tea on a Friday. They put the Father’s Day Tea on a weekend, of course. The other day my first grader told me how lucky his friend was that his mom didn’t work and could come to everything. That one hurt a little.”humansofny“My dad doesn’t want me to join the military because I’m his only son. But I’ve watched a lot of movies and cartoons and stuff about the military. It seems cool and I want to be a part of that.”humansofny“I’m working on my stamina. I’m trying to walk over every bridge in the city. I walked over six big bridges in the past two weeks, and a lot of smaller bridges too. I thought it would be a good way to become a better person and see a lot of bridges.”humansofny“I always say that I’ve done a life sentence-- in installments. My behavior funneled me into the criminal justice system at the age of 17. I’ve done three state bids and numerous stints at Rikers. The cycle of recidivism is difficult to break. When you come out of prison, you have nothing: no home, no family, no money, and no job. The only thing you have is your social standing. And if your social standing in jail is perceived as higher than that on the outside, sometimes it’s preferable to go back. In prison, they called me ‘Pops.’ I got privileges. People respected me. I felt valued. When I got out, I had to start over.” -------------------------------------------------- Charles is a former client and current program leader at The Fortune Society. The Fortune Society's mission is to "create a world where all who are incarcerated or formerly incarcerated can become positive, contributing members of society."humansofny“My mom left me with my grandparents so she could prepare a way for us in America. But my grandparents passed away, so I came to America before my mother was ready. There were eight of us in one apartment. In my mind at the time, I thought that if I began to misbehave, I’d be sent back home. So one day I got in a fight at school, and when the teacher tried to restrain me, I hit her with a chair. I was only nine years old, but from that moment on, I became a system baby. My mom gave me up and I went to a foster home, then a boy’s home, then jail, then prison. When you go to prison, they make you strip naked, spread your ass cheeks, and cough. I refused to do it. So they beat me and threw me alone into the box. And I remember sitting in there alone, reflecting on my life, and where it had ended up. I started thinking about the other members of my family. My sister was a registered nurse. My grandmother owned two houses. My aunt was a payroll supervisor. My mother worked in advertising. I realized that success was in my DNA. For the first time, I developed a thought that prison was not a place that I belonged.” --------------------------------------------- Barry is a current staff member and former client of The Fortune Society. The Fortune Society's mission is to "create a world where all who are incarcerated or formerly incarcerated can become positive, contributing members of society."humansofny“We’re trying to unlearn the years of self-protection that it took to survive in prison. What works in there doesn’t work out here. In prison, vulnerability is considered a weakness. But vulnerability allows you to connect on an emotional level. Without it, you can’t develop skills or build healthy relationships. I want this support group to be a safe place for ex-felons to begin to feel vulnerable again. I want them to learn that they can express vulnerability, and experience the joys and disappointments of other people without getting hurt. If they can’t learn to express their vulnerability in relationships, they will end up back in prison. They’ll become isolated from their families because those relationships were built on deception, instead of trust. They’ll choose to express their vulnerabilities through drug use, or violence. They might even strike back at their boss when they’re reprimanded at work. The goal is to provide them with a safe platform to express their emotions before they’re filled up.” -------------------------------------------------- Stanley leads a support group for formerly incarcerated individuals sponsored by The Fortune Society. The Fortune Society's mission is to "create a world where all who are incarcerated or formerly incarcerated can become positive, contributing members of society."humansofny“Max has been helping me learn how to rebuild my relationships. I’ve been trying to connect with my 17-year old niece. I don’t even know where to begin. When you’ve been in prison for 32 years, how do you relate to your teenage niece? I completely messed it up. She tried to give me some advice a few days ago, and I viewed it as a challenge and completely blew her off. Max saw that I was upset and asked me what was wrong. I explained the situation. Max helped me realize that my niece was being compassionate and I’d completely shut her down. I had misinterpreted the entire situation. So I immediately asked for permission to leave. I took two different trains out to Queens, knocked on my niece’s door, and gave her a single flower. I told her how sorry I was that I’d hurt her, and she started crying and hugged me. I was able to do that because of Max.” -------------------------------------------------- I heard this man's story while attending a support group for formerly incarcerated individuals sponsored by The Fortune Society. The Fortune Society's mission is to "create a world where all who are incarcerated or formerly incarcerated can become positive, contributing members of society."humansofny“I killed people, shot people, and robbed people. I’m not blaming society for my problems. These are things that I did. I was sentenced to 32 years to life. When I went to prison, I decided that I was never coming out again. I had to prepare myself for that. I got rid of all my compassion, sympathy, and pity. I had to deal with bruisers every day who might decide to throw a punch at me. So I suppressed all this stuff for three decades. Then oddly enough I was granted parole. Now I’m trying to learn to care again after spending 32 years in prison. Do you know how difficult that is?” -------------------------------------------------- I heard this man's story while attending a support group for formerly incarcerated individuals sponsored by The Fortune Society. The Fortune Society's mission is to "create a world where all who are incarcerated or formerly incarcerated can become positive, contributing members of society."humansofny“I hope to be as selfless as my mother. My father died when I was seven months old. She had to raise five kids on her own while working as a nurse, but she made time for all of us. We used to have these days called ‘Mommy Holidays.’ She’d choose a normal school day, wake us up, have us get ready for school, cook breakfast in a hurry, and right before we walked out the door, she’d scream: ‘Mommy Holiday!’ And we'd all skip school and go somewhere fun.”humansofny“I was too hard on my son because I couldn’t understand why he didn’t love to compete as much as I do.”humansofny“I tried to prank him one time by putting a tuna fish sandwich in his bedside drawer. But the prank ended up being on both of us because I forgot about it for weeks.”humansofny“I’ve got a one-month old baby at home. You don’t realize how much your life can change from something so tiny. I knew it would be tough, but I imagined a lot of cooing, and smiles, and lullabies, and quiet evenings staring into her eyes. There’s a lot more projectile vomit and projectile poo than I imagined. I wouldn’t be in the same room with her in this dress.”humansofny"I'm trying to look at my phone less."humansofny"We'd never put her in a home, so we alternate days taking care of her. I watch her two days a week. She's not good at forming new memories, but she can still remember the first twenty years of her life pretty well. So she's living in the world of her youth. She gets scandalized every time a girl walks by us in shorts."humansofny“She’s a pit bull. When she wants you to do something, she’s not going to let go until you do it: ‘Comb your hair. Shine your shoes. Change your pants. Wash your hair. Sit up straight.’ Been that way since we were kids. But she kept us out of trouble. The neighborhood we grew up in was like West Side Story without the singing and dancing, so she kept us all in line. My father was General MacArthur’s personal cook and valet. He used to tell us: ‘Nobody likes the general. But everyone respects him.’”humansofny“We met freshman year in ES142. It was an Engineering By Design class. We were just friends for the next two years. We spent a lot of time studying at the library together, and we ate a lot of lunches together. Then finally I got up the nerve to ask her out to dinner. Because, you know, lunch is just lunch, but dinner means date. So I asked her out to dinner. My heart was in my throat. I felt like I was about to give a class presentation. Then she said: ‘Wait. Are you asking me to go OUT, out. Or just out?’”humansofny"I'm learning the cries right now. Different cries mean different things. There's the bird cry, which sounds like a squawk and means 'I'm hungry.' There's the whimper, which means 'Pay attention to me or I'll let loose.' Then there's the sleepy cry. You don't want to hear that one. Nothing stops sleepy cry but The Boob."humansofny"I'm raising a biracial grandson full time. Every time I try to discipline him, he says it's discrimination."humansofny"I'm not sure what the score was but we lost the game. The other team was older than us though. They looked like they were ten or something."humansofny“We’ve been in the shelter system ever since their father was murdered. We needed his paycheck to pay the rent. We had no choice. He had a good job at the Pepsi factory. We were engaged at the time, and we were about to move upstate. We were even planning to take a trip to Disney World. But when he died, a part of me died. I went into a depression. Everything was moving around me, but I was at a standstill. I didn’t want to do my hair. I didn’t want to be bothered with the kids. We used to go to the park and play, but after their father was killed, we were homebodies. I just wanted to stay at home and cry.” -------------------------------------------------- This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the Win Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.humansofny"The landlord gave me a deadline of Sunday the 15th. On the 13th, I went to the guidance counselor at my daughter’s school, and she gave me forms for the homeless shelter. My back was against the wall. I didn’t have any other alternatives. Some days it’s OK. But some days I feel helpless and sad. On those days, I think back to the years when everything was going good. My daughter is a blessing. She's been so strong through all of this. If she see’s that I’m sad, she’ll lay with me, hug me, and make sure I’m OK.” -------------------------------------------------- This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the Win Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.humansofny“It’s hard for a child to live in a shelter. They can’t invite their friends over. They can’t have sleepovers. They can’t have their own space. They can’t go to their room when they’re being punished. There’s no personal time for them to discover themselves without interruption. There’s even confusion toward the word ‘home.’ Sometimes they’ll say ‘I’m going home,’ but then they’ll correct themselves and say, ‘I’m going upstairs.’ We tell them that this is where they are staying while they make plans. This is only their home until they find a real home.” -------------------------------------------------- This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the Win Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.humansofny“Homelessness can be very confusing for children, and it comes with a lot of misconceptions. We try to untangle that confusion as soon as they arrive: ‘No, you’re not a bum. You don’t live in a cardboard box. You don’t stink. Mom is not a bad person. She isn’t crazy. This is not forever.’ We want to undo some of the trauma of homelessness because we don’t want children to view themselves as homeless for the rest of their lives.” -------------------------------------------------- This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the Win Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.humansofny“I want to go back to Virginia. We used to live in a house with two floors. My room was upstairs. We could go outside and play whenever we wanted. My friends always came over. Someone else lives there now.” -------------------------------------------------This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the Win Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.humansofny“I want to be a scientist.”
“What’s the best part about being a scientist?”
“Discovering bugs.” -------------------------------------------------- This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the Win Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.humansofny“Our building had so many violations that all the residents had to be evicted. Turns out the landlord hadn’t paid the mortgage since 2000. Some of us tried to stay, but it didn’t work. We moved to a hotel room for three days until we ran out of money. At that point we had no choice. So my partner and I ran to City Hall and got married, so that we could live in the shelter together. I never wanted to get married like that. We told ourselves that we’d have another ceremony once things are better.” ------------------------------------------------This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the Win Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.humansofny“The landlord told me that he’d hold my stuff for two weeks. But when we went back to the apartment to get our stuff, all of our electronics were gone. And somebody had left the door open. My cat was gone. Her name was Kisses. I’d had her since she was two years old. I used to feed her with a bottle. I still have dreams about her.” -------------------------------------------------- This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the Win Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.humansofny"He's taking me to Disney World for my birthday."humansofny“While I was in prison, I had a stab wound that wasn’t healing correctly. The stitches weren’t dissolving like they were supposed to, and they were pinching and poking me like plastic needles. But the prison doctor wouldn’t authorize me to go to the hospital. I had to write a grievance about the doctor, just so I could get approved for treatment. When my treatment was finally approved, they did some blood tests on me. The prison doctor called me in his office and said: ‘Do you remember that grievance you wrote about me?’
I said, ‘Yes.’
He said, ‘You’re HIV positive.’”humansofny"I try to take my pain and frustration and turn it into crochet butterflies and cupcakes."humansofny"My mom started dressing me in suits when I was a baby."humansofny“After my mother died, the four of us bounced around in foster care. Luckily we were all able to stay together. After several years of moving around, we eventually found a permanent home. Our new parents were Fidia and Luis Figuereo. I remember the first day we arrived at their house. They were cooking up a storm. I can remember exactly what they were making: rice, yellow beans, and steak. At that point I assumed that it would just be another foster home, but we soon became a family. The Figuereo’s had two kids of their own, so there were six of us total. All the girls were in one room and all the boys were in another room. “Do you remember the moment you began to see them as your family?”
“I do. I got in trouble at school one day because I wouldn’t take off my hoodie in class. And I remember Fidia showed up, and I thought: ‘Oh crap. Here comes Mom.’” -------------------------------------------------Eric is a current volunteer and former client of the Association to Benefit Children. Founded in 1986, ABC aims to 'amplify the voices of defenseless children by combating the debilitating effects of poverty and championing the right of every child to a joyful and nurturing childhood.' (www.a-b-c.org)humansofny"In the early 90’s, we had a brownstone on 91st street where we cared for homeless babies that were HIV positive. In the backyard there was a mural that showed a flock of doves escaping from a cage. Every time one of the babies passed away, we’d paint their name beneath one of the doves. Most of the babies died. But a few of them lived. And Eric is one of the ones who did." ----------------------------------------- Gretchen Buchenholz heads the Association to Benefit Children. Founded in 1986, ABC aims to 'amplify the voices of defenseless children by combating the debilitating effects of poverty and championing the right of every child to a joyful and nurturing childhood.' (www.a-b-c.org)humansofny“I met my husband here while I was visiting as a tourist, and decided to stay in America. I had my children here. I couldn’t bring my children back to Mexico, because my husband is from Honduras, and my family would be torn apart. So I went back and forth on my tourist visa while my children were growing up, but recently something happened. Immigration noticed that I’d been spending too much time in New York, and they refused to let me enter. So I had to cross illegally. It took us twelve days to walk across the border. We walked through the mountains. Every day, four of us would share a can of tuna and some crackers. Now that I’m here, I don’t know what to do. I can’t get a job. I can’t get services. I’m afraid at any minute they will find me and take me from my children.” -------------------------------------------------- I met this woman and learned her story at the Association to Benefit Children. ABC is a program devoted to providing a level of safety and structure to NYC families experiencing the turmoil of poverty, including recent immigrants. (www.a-b-c.org)humansofny"Just the other day, I was walking down 116th Street when a big, handsome man walked up and gave me a hug. I’d first met him when he was 7. He was the oldest brother in a family of four who were housed in a nearby shelter. When he came to us, his father had just committed suicide by drinking Clorox in Central Park. His father had been mentally ill, and before he killed himself, he had told the boy that he’d kill him too. So the boy kept having dreams. He kept dreaming that his father was Uncle Scar, and he was coming to kill him. He became obsessed with The Lion King. He stopped going to school. He stopped looking at people. When you approached him, you couldn’t move to quickly, or he’d be terrified. But we started working with him, and he started to improve. We discovered that he was an ace at math. And all these years later, I just ran into him on the street. He was 6 foot 5’ and buttoned up in a suit! He seemed very happy and has a great job at an embassy now.” ---------------------------------------------
Gretchen Buchenholz heads the Association to Benefit Children. Founded in 1986, ABC aims to 'amplify the voices of defenseless children by combating the debilitating effects of poverty and championing the right of every child to a joyful and nurturing childhood.' (www.a-b-c.org)humansofny“I began as an accidental witness. I was running a preschool program, and I went to Church Street for some bureaucratic thing—I needed a piece of paper. And I just happened to walk in the wrong door. And in that room I saw homeless families waiting to be processed. Some were sleeping on plastic chairs. There were babies sleeping on bare mattresses. Some didn’t have diapers. I ran to the store and bought bread, peanut butter, and apple juice for everyone. Then I used the three quarters left in my pocket to call The New York Times and The Red Cross. Ever since then, I’ve been an advocate for the homeless.” ---------------------------------------------
Gretchen Buchenholz heads the Association to Benefit Children. Founded in 1986, ABC aims to 'amplify the voices of defenseless children by combating the debilitating effects of poverty and championing the right of every child to a joyful and nurturing childhood.' (www.a-b-c.org)humansofny“We want to get the children as early as possible. Homeless families are extremely stressed. Often they don’t know what’s coming next. They’re terrified. And that sort of lifestyle doesn’t leave much room for comfort and pleasure and fun. We want to give children a place to be children. And we want to provide their parents with a place to enjoy their children in simple ways: blow bubbles with them, kiss them on the feet, help them put some jam on their toast. While we watch the children, we provide the parents with parenting groups, computer skills, and English classes.” ------------------------------------------ Gretchen Buchenholz heads the Association to Benefit Children, which was formed in 1986 to ‘alleviate the suffering of New York City’s children.’ (www.a-b-c.org). She was first introduced to me as the ‘Steve Jobs of saving lives.’humansofny“I’ve been trying the online dating thing, but I’m an outgoing person, so I always imagined meeting someone naturally. I guess I just thought one day someone would sit next to me and strike up a conversation. If somebody walked up to me right now and said, ‘Let’s go explore,’ I’d totally be down for that.”humansofny“What’s your relationship to each other?”
“You answer.”
“No, you answer.”humansofny“My story didn’t turn out like I thought. Without going into it, I’ll just say that I’m a lot more alone than I thought I’d be at this point. But I’ve also learned that I’m a lot stronger than I realized, and I’m proud of myself for that. We took a beach trip recently. I got us all packed up, drove us there, and we had a great day--- all by ourselves. On the ride home, I remember thinking: ‘I got this.’”humansofny"My brother has a big face."humansofny"He just woke up."humansofny"This was my hockey team. I was the goalkeeper."humansofny"She's a very easy child. I thank God for her every day."humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“I feel good right now. Ever since I left my job in insurance, I’ve written twelve plays and two children’s books. I’ve had my plays performed in Atlanta, Washington DC, San Francisco, and Yale University. My ex-wife and I have become best friends. I apologize all the time for the man I was before I followed my passion, and she comes to my plays and readings. I moved to New York at the age of 65 to take things to the next level. Now I want to see one of my plays on Broadway.”humansofny“When I was a kid, I’d always wanted to be a writer. I even made a go of it when I was younger. I moved to California in my twenties, and tried to make it work. I almost sold a screenplay. I traveled around a bunch, and worked odd jobs, but by the time I hit my thirties, I said: ‘That’s it.’ And I went into the insurance business. I worked for a wonderful company—the one with the duck. But September 11th really shook me up. A couple days before, I’d flown out of the same airport as one of the hijacked planes. I hadn’t written anything in seventeen years, but I thought: ‘Win, lose, or draw, I’ve got to try this one more time.’ So at the age of 51, I became a writer again.’”humansofny“I achieved my first goal, which was playing pro soccer. I played for three years in France. Now I’m achieving my second goal, which is to coach kids. My first coaching job was at an elementary school that never had a soccer team before. We lost our first game 2 – 1. But the kids were so excited when we scored our goal that they ran off the field. I had to chase them down and tell them that the game wasn’t over. Then on the bus ride home, everyone was so excited they could barely sit in their seats. When we got back to school, the kids were so happy getting off the bus that their parents thought we’d won the game. That moment was everything to me.”humansofny“I had a friend ask me to borrow money recently, and then he turned around and acted like it had been a gift. That really hurt me, because I’d given that money from my heart. I actually put a thumbtack on that day in my calendar. That was the day that I decided to narrow my inner circle. Now I focus all my energy on the people who want nothing from me but my time. Mainly my daughter, and the kids that I coach on my soccer team.”humansofny“Schools have really shifted their focus to testing, and music has really become more of an extracurricular activity. It’s almost treated like a sport. My class used to last almost an hour. Now it’s down to thirty minutes. By the time the kids get seated and settled, we’re almost out of time. It’s a shame, because music helps to teach focus and discipline. You really have to commit to an instrument to master it. There seems to be more of a ‘popcorn mentality’ among students today. As soon as something gets difficult, they’re onto something else.”humansofny“I’m a consultant, but the clock’s ticking down until retirement. You get 35 years of recognition for doing something, and you see that coming to an end, and it forces you to think about your legacy. I’ll miss the constant feeling of solving problems and adding value. I get that feeling from my family, of course, but I worry about falling out of my routines. I’m afraid I’ll revert back to my twenties, when I was reading a lot but not doing very much. My wife is planning all sorts of hobbies to keep me busy. She intends for me to become an expert at cooking and gardening.”humansofnyToday in microfashion...humansofny“I work for the Norwegian Refugee Council. Right now I’m trying to think of ways to create safe public spaces for women and children in developing countries. Our ultimate goal is gender equality. But in some places, women are afraid to go outside. This keeps them from accessing basic services and participating in civic life. The problem needs to be worked on from many different angles. But my background is in architecture and urban planning, so I’m working on improving street lighting, installing urban furniture, and upgrading empty lots.”humansofny“I’m attending a programmers’ retreat right now. I’m working on an app that will hopefully provide some useful visualizations of how British politicians vote on certain bills. I feel like programming is the closest thing we have to magic. It allows you to create things with words.”humansofny“I’m just trying to stay in New York. I’ve lived here for six years now, and I’ve been close to going home many times. But every time I think it’s not going to work, an opportunity arises that allows me to keep going. Recently I was at a low point, and I decided to join an acting company in Brooklyn. There are 55 of us. We put on plays, do shows, and make movies. It’s very much a community and we hold each other to a standard. My work ethic is better than it’s been in six years. We rehearse every day, submit a lot of resumes, and go to a lot of auditions. We all have the same goal: we want to stay in New York.”humansofny“We met 25 years ago in an English class. There are normally four of us together. I’m from Russia. She’s from Azerbaijan. The Moldovan and the Ukrainian couldn’t make it.”humansofny"Hazel can't have superpowers yet. She's too little for me to teach her how to control them."humansofny“My mom found this key on the street. It opens a special lock in the Universe that holds extra superpowers.”humansofny"Recently I've been feeling that 'single person thing' where my friends have gotten married and I feel that I don't matter as much in their lives."humansofny"It's been a rough couple of weeks, so I made myself a flower crown."humansofny"I'm not sure I understand what this is for. But sure."humansofny"I love working with my hands. You can actually feel the job being done. And at the end of the day, you can look at what you’ve accomplished. I can walk over this plaza in 30 years and know that I laid these stones."humansofny“I’ve worked with this man for over 16 years, and he’s taught me so much about life. He came to this country from Albania as a young man, and he didn’t speak any English. For the last 30 years of his life, he’s worked two jobs so that his children could have the greatest education possible. There’s nothing he wouldn’t do for his family. Before I met him, I wasn’t pushing myself nearly as hard as I could have.”humansofny“I actually went to the shelter to get another dog, but he’d already been adopted. So I decided to do a lap around the facility before I left, and I saw Engelbert. He had about ten pages of physical problems. His back legs didn’t work. His old owners kept him outside, so his ears were completely frostbitten. And he only had three teeth. So I thought if I didn’t get him, nobody else would.” (Engelbert is one ninth of one of my favorite Instagram accounts. He lives with seven other rescues, and a pig: @wolfgang2242)humansofny“My family doesn’t like my appearance. They ask me why I can’t look normal.”
“What do you wish they would say?”
“You can dress however you want, because of the person you are.”humansofny“I think people perceive me as being much bolder than I actually am. I have a lot of trouble with confidence. I’ve dyed my hair since kindergarten. My mother colored my hair as an experiment before trying it on herself, and I liked it so much that I kept doing it, even though she told me not to. Eventually the colors grew wackier and wackier. Then I started wearing off-the-shoulder shirts, and miniskirts, and lots of prints. I was always the different kid. In middle school, I had so much trouble making friends that I tried to dress normally for a while. But that didn’t work either.”humansofny"It's a breathing and stretching exercise called Qigong. I met a Kung Fu teacher in the park who showed me some techniques. I try to do it for an hour everyday."humansofny"We've been friends since we were twelve, but he's always kept me at arm's length."
"We've had fun."
"Not the kind of fun I wanted to have."humansofnyFor those of you who don’t know, my girlfriend Erin runs @susiesseniordogs -which is the place to go if you’re looking for a new friend. Erin really has a heart for older dogs, and there’d be significantly less crying around the apartment if we could help find homes for more of these pups. She’s already matched hundreds of senior dogs with new homes. Many of the dogs had been sitting in shelters for months or even years. It’s a really heartwarming page, and Erin’s doing wonderful things over there, so I’d encourage everyone to follow along. You maybe even find a loyal new companion. @susiesseniordogshumansofny“When things are good in my life, everything looks likes a picture. When things are bad in my life, nothing looks like a picture. When I met her, I was taking one hundred or two hundred photographs per day. Now she wants to go back to France, and I’m only taking one or two photographs per day.”humansofny“I’m waiting for someone who’s always late. He seems to think that his time is more important than mine. He only gets away with it because he’s charming. He’ll probably show up with a bottle of wine and some compliments. But in ten more minutes, that won’t even work.”humansofny“Back in the 30’s, I used to go to summer camp in Maine. Those were the happiest days of my life. There was a great freedom. I rode horseback, walked in the woods, went swimming, made new friends.”
“What was your happiest moment at camp?”
“One time I won a tennis match and got 50 points for my team. The whole camp was divided into two teams: Green and Tan. And we competed all summer long to see which team could get the most points. And 50 points was a really big deal! To give some perspective-- you’d only get ten points for riding on the gunnel of a canoe.”humansofny"I've got a couple friends who are members of the internet. They are complete fiends on that thing. Personally, I have no interest."humansofny"I've probably had more than a thousand seizures in my life. I've fallen down everywhere. On the street, the sidewalk, the subway tracks, and down the stairs. I wanted to be a nurse, but I had to drop out of school because the epilepsy took my memory. Anything that I studied at night, I would forget by the next morning. I've got medicine now that keeps the seizures down to once a month, but that stuff messes you up too."humansofny“My ex-husband left me on the same day that my sister was killed. That day began a twelve-year spiritual journey for me. I became a tantra teacher, I joined the Peace Corps, I did a bunch of energy work, and now I run a goddess circle. I try to help women release their inner goddess. I believe that if you become more conscious, you’ll be more connected. And if you become more connected, you’ll be more loved. Because we’re all beautiful little stars. I know, I know… I’m such a hippie.”humansofny"I'd like to write a novel about the future where the earth isn't a dystopian wasteland and teens aren't fighting each other to the death."